This tremendous 100% varietal wine hails from Oakville and was aged over three years in oak. Juicy red-cherry fruit and a compelling hint of caramel greet the palate, framed by elegant, fine tannins and a subtle minty tone in the background. Balanced and rewarding from start to finish, it has years ahead of it to develop further nuance. Enjoy 2022–2030.
Ripe aromas of fig, blackberry and cassis are softened and sweetened by a slathering of oaky chocolate and vanilla. This is full, layered, intense and cushioned on the palate, with rich flavors of chocolaty black fruits and baking spices. A toasty, everlasting finish is heady but ideally balanced. Drink through 2023.
Mac Watson honors the memory of a wine once made by his mother in this tremendously delicious, balanced and complex botrytised white. Dark gold in color, it layers toasted hazelnut, pear compote and orange peel flavors, reveling in the succulence of its 122 g/L of residual sugar.
This spent 20 months in 30% new French oak, and incorporates fruit from Ponzi's Aurora, Abetina and Madrona vineyards, among others. Aromatic, dense and toasty, it deftly blends aromas and flavors of toast, cigar box, blackberry, black cherry, coffee and graphite. Tannins are polished to a fine sheen, and frame a finish loaded with dark chocolate and espresso. Drink now through 2032.
This is the top wine from La Bégude, named after the highest point in the vineyard at 1200 feet. It has structure, density and considerable acidity that is still calming down. With 18 months in wood, the wine has developing an extra richness and concentration. Produced by the Tari family, formerly of Château Giscours in Margaux, it is a wine made for aging. Drink from 2020.
Deep, dense and pure from the opening bell, this Toro is a winner. Aromas of dark ripe black fruits are cool and moderately oaked. This feels massive on the palate but sensationally balanced. Flavors of blackberry, coffee, mocha and toasty oak finish spicy, smooth and heady. Drink this exemplary Toro through 2023.
Slightly gritty black-fruit aromas include a sweet note of pastry along with a hint of prune. Wall-to-wall saturation ensures that all corners of one's mouth are covered. Flavors of blackberry, mocha and chocolate are highly impressive and expressive, while this settles nicely on a long finish. Drink now through 2024.
Lush cedary black-fruit aromas are luxe and offer notes of marzipan and vanilla. This bruiser is massive and tannic on the palate, but still lush and friendly. Chocolate is a key flavor, while baked berry and cassis flavors are hardly wallflowers. On the finish, this is tannic and deep as a sea trench. Drink this saturated black-colored Toro through 2023.
This re-named vineyard was formerly bottled as deLancellotti. You'll find striking minerality underscoring chunky black fruits. Accents of citrus and graphite comingle, with exceptional midpalate concentration. This is a wine to cellar, though it is already quite enjoyable. Drink now through 2030.
The producer sources from two blocks of the vineyard for this wine—one at a high elevation, which contributes bright acidity. Crunchy cranberry, pomegranate and orange peel flavors surround silky, succulent layers of texture that present as fleshy fruit. That delicately lush flavor has considerable length.
Elegance, complexity and structure come together in this drop-dead gorgeous winethat ranks among Italy's greatest whites. It opens with sublime yellow spring flower, aromatic herb and orchard fruit scents. The creamy, delicious palate seamlessly combines juicy white peach, ripe pear and citrus flavors while white almond and savory mineral notes grace the lingering finish.
From 18-year-old vines, this supple well-balanced effort blends flavors of mocha, cherry, vanilla and breakfast tea. Superbly integrated and delicious even at this early stage, this wine seems destined for a long and savory cellar life. Drink now through 2028.
A standout even in this terrific lineup of 2015 releases from Patricia Green, the Weber opens with a burst of cola and tobacco scents and accents. It continues, subtle and detailed, with flavors of oranges, vanilla, tea and milk chocolate discreetly threaded through ripe blackberry fruit.
This wine is in peak condition. The tannins and the secondary flavors dominate this ripe leather-textured wine. The fruit is all there as well: dried berries and hints of black-plum skins. It is a major wine right at the point of drinking with both the mature flavors and the fruit in the right balance.
With its sophisticated mix of mineral, acid and tart fruits, this seductive effort pleases from start to finish. Supple and dense, it's got strawberry, blueberry, plum and black cherry, a touch of chocolate, and that underlying streak of mineral. All these elements are in good proportion and finish with an appealing silky texture. It's delicious already, but give it another decade for full enjoyment. Drink now through 2028.
First made in 2006, this succulent luscious Chardonnay is all about minerality. It's got a rich core of butterscotch and the seemingly endless layers of subtle flavors that biodynamic farming can bring. It spends 18 months on the lees prior to bottling. Drink now through 2028.
This blockbuster, powerhouse of a wine suggests blueberry pie and chocolate as it opens in the glass. On the palate, it's smooth and seductively silky, offering complex cedar, peppercorn and peppery oak seasonings amidst its dense richness. It finishes with finesse and spice.
Nicely oaked blackberry, licorice, vanilla and charred aromas are smooth and sultry. This is an outstanding wine from an excellent year. Forward barrel-spice and mocha flavors adorn core blackberry and raspberry fruit, while this runs long and tastes vaguely chocolaty on the velvety finish. Enjoy this top-notch Tempranillo through 2030.
Coming from a seven-acre vineyard named after the dovecote on the property, this is a magnificent wine. Powered by both fruit tannins and the 28 months of new wood aging, it is darkly rich and with great concentration. As a sign of its pedigree, there is also elegance here, a restraint which is new to this wine. That makes it a wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2022.
This fresh and lively medium-bodied wine is beautifully crafted, with cherry blossom aromas and tangy acidity. Layered and seductive, it offers a crisp mix of orange peel, cherry, pomegranate and baking spice flavors that are ready for the table or the cellar.
Heitz has made this stellar rosé from the rare Grignolino grape since 1961. Ruby grapefruit-red, it's sultry with strawberry, watermelon, orange zest and salty spice flavor, highlighted with vibrant floral aromas.
Alluring, complex and powerful aromas of grilled meat, berries, tea, smoke, vanilla and spice cover every base. An intense palate is concentrated but still elegant. Blackberry, molasses and mocha flavors finish with chocolaty oak notes, fine tannins and overall cohesion. Drink this special Rioja from 2020 through 2035.
Tarry blackberry and cheesy oak aromas are appropriate for a wine of this size and magnitude. In the mouth, this Tinta de Toro is expansive and grabby, with bullish tannins. Slightly salty earthy accents come with core blackberry flavors and notes of baking spices and chocolate, while on the finish this is long, chocolaty, delicious and not too hard or tannic. Drink through 2023.
The apogee of this ambitious winery's white wine efforts, this bottling of just two barrels of Clone 5 shows focused marzipan, marcona almond and white peach notes on the nose. The palate sizzles with saltiness and a lemony acidity that cuts through its brown butter richness with finesse. The finish is luxurious and long.
San Jose-based producer Adam Comartin heads 1,100 feet up into the mountains to source fruit for this tremendous wine, which offers wild cherry, sage, and eucalyptus scents on the nose. Ripe black plum and strawberry fruit lead the palate, followed by acid-driven waves of juniper, pine and bay leaf, finishing with a menthol-like sensation.
Yields were down in 2015, but intensity is up, giving this medium-bodied, silky wine the potential to drink well through at least 2025. Hickory smoke outlines white peach before ending in a long flurry of lime zest.
Bergström has made a Shea designate since 2003, intent on showcasing a “pretty” style of the vineyard. Here are lovely aromatics, with grape jelly, rose petals and plum in the nose, and a complex run of red fruits in the mouth. Streaks of cola, brown sugar and more come up in a generous finish.
Focused and dense, this intense wine captures the essence of ripe raspberries. Aged in 50% new French oak, it's got a strong vein of coffee and mocha. The flavors broaden out and penetrate, finishing with highlights of cedar, cinnamon and dark chocolate. Drink now through the 2020s, but decant if you want the full expression.
Cranberry, baked rhubarb, anise and crushed slate aromas show on the nose of this always-excellent bottling from the Franscioni family. The palate abounds with energy, driving black raspberry fruit accented with earthy loam, fennel, oregano and juniper through a compellingly round midpalate.
This standout Rocks District wine brings earth shaking aromas of black-olive brine, tapenade, green olive, stargazer lilies, orange peel and crushed gravel. The smoked meat, charcuterie and blue-fruit flavors don't hold back, bringing a lovely sense of texture and detail. It's an intense wine that completely demands your attention.
This Bulgarian Mavrud presents the nose with suggestions of dried cherry, black plum, freshly ground black pepper and a whiff of eucalyptus. In the mouth it is balanced with soft tannins mingling with dried cherry, cassis and black plum.
Steely and perfumed, this wine sees only 20% new French oak, remaining vibrantly fresh. Baked apple and lemon pith veer into grapefruit on the palate, with spiciness to the finish that's both brash and loud.
Underbrush, scorched earth, menthol and plum steeped in spirits are some of the aromas that unfold on the glass. The big, chewy palate doles out ripe wild cherry, raspberry jam, ground pepper and licorice alongside firm, velvety tannins. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on the finish.
Pale in color, this is nutty in character, with a warm and rounded hint of red fruits. The wine has a soft, while still fresh, aftertaste. It is aged in cellars in Saumur on the Loire river.
The aromas entice with notes of wet stone, honeysuckle, chamomile and stone fruit. The palate is generous in flavor and feel, showing a fine sense of balance.
Forest floor, tilled soil, mature berry and a whiff of new leather combine on this. The ripe palate offers fleshy black cherry, dried aromatic herb and tobacco, while fine-grained tannins give the finish some grip. Drink 2018–2023.
Gingery spice notes accent fresh pear and melon fruit in this medium- to full-bodied wine. It's round on the palate but not flabby, with a warm, spicy finish. Drink now.
Aromas of forest floor, violet, red berry and a whiff of dark baking spice unfold in the glass while wild cherry, black raspberry, ground pepper and star anise drive the palate. Framed in firm, fine-grained tannins, this is a classic Tuscan red. Drink through 2020.
This has a charming nose that boasts rose, violet and red berry while the juicy, easy-drinking palate offers ripe wild cherry, chopped mint, white pepper and a hint of star anise. There isn't much complexity but it is savory and balanced, with fresh acidity and supple tannins.
This bright, savory wine delivers aromas and flavors of juicy wild cherry, black raspberry, violet, white pepper and mocha. Polished tannins provide the framework. Enjoy through 2020.
Earthy plum and cherry aromas score points for being clear and direct. The palate on this varietal Mencía is round, smooth and just right. Lightly briny, earthy plum and cherry flavors hold steady on the finish, with a dash of saltiness.
This comes across wide and expansive as it lazily exudes oily aromas of hazelnut and toffee. A plump palate is not overly cutting or demanding, while flavors of lightly salted nuts and buttered toast end with toffee and peanut flavors.
This is an aromatic brooder with aromas of scorched earth, plum, dried flowers and green herbs. It's full in feel with dense, dark-fruit flavors, tightly coiled tannins and tart acids—a pleasing example of the variety.
Aromas of dark-skinned berry, rose and wild herb lead the nose. The round, juicy palate doles out ripe black cherry, fleshy raspberry, white pepper and clove while polished tannins provide a smooth, velvety framework. Enjoy through 2019.
Dark in color and in flavor profile, this medium-bodied Cornas boasts aromas and flavors reminiscent of chocolate fudge, espresso and plummy fruit, all framed by soft, dusty tannins. Drink now–2025.
A blend of 90% Sangiovese and 10% Canaiolo, this opens with aromas of violet, mature plum, espresso and a whiff of forest floor. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, ground pepper, toast and clove while packed, fine-grained tannins provide support. Drink through 2020.
Sunbaked earth, ripe berry, baking spice and a whiff of menthol meld in the glass. The juicy palate offers red cherry, pomegranate, star anise, mocha and a hint of tobacco alongside fine-grained tannins.
Blended with 9% Malbec, 9% Cabernet Franc and 5% Petit Verdot, this is a perennial classic for the winery, the sister brand of Cuvaison. Juicy in cherry and cassis, it sustains big, pillowy tannins and tar, suggesting more time for the fruit to match up with the structure. Drink through 2020.
Ripe dark-skinned berry, forest floor and cooking spice aromas lead the nose along with a whiff of new leather. The chewy palate offers fleshy black cherry, cinnamon, vanilla and a hint of tobacco while polished tannins provide the framework. This is already accessible so no need to cellar it for years. Best through 2021.
The aromas of blue fruit, herbs and spice are initially under tight restraint. The flavors are full, with the tannins simultaneously firm and fine grained. It shows good length.
This robust red opens with aromas of espresso, plum cake, toast and dark spice. The hearty palate offers blackberry jam, licorice, vanilla and mocha alongside firm fine-grained tannins. A coffee note closes the finish.
This structured, complex Chardonnay is packed with minerality and considerable weight. The tight texture and almost tannic character will soften over the next few months. Full of potential, it's drinkable now but will be so much better from 2017.
This ripe, full-bodied wine has ripe green fruits that are lifted by lime and made richer by apricot. Still young, with a concentrated structure, it's going to develop into a full, beautifully fruity wine. The name of the wine means the size of a parcel that demands the work of seven men for a day. Drink from 2017.
With its light color and cool feel, this well-balanced wine comes from a parcel of 30-year-old vines. The smoky tannins and intense acidity give a wine that will develop well and slowly. It's still young with its red-berry fruits and fresh aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
There's a lot to like in this nicely priced white, a blend of several regional vineyards. A taste of hazelnut expands on the palate to meet creamy Tahitian vanilla. Approachably round, this crowd-pleasing wine finishes in measured, integrated oak.
A blend of Cabernet from Grand Ciel (31%), Ciel du Cheval (30%), Upchurch (28%) and Klipsun (11%) vineyards, wood spice aromas start out up front. The cherry flavors are light and elegant, with the tannins bringing some grip.
Delicious while also young and textured, this wine comes from biodynamically grown grapes. It has a strong sense of minerality as well as intense citrus and green fruits. It's tight at the moment and needs to round out, so drink from 2018.
While exuberantly fruity, almost tropical on the nose, there's a crystalline edge to this dry Riesling that renders it especially refreshing. It's vibrant and light footed, brightened by a lingering honey note on the finish.
Cabernet makes up just over half of this blend. Aromas of black cherries, herbs and minerals are followed by plush-feeling dark-fruit flavors and backed by firm tannins. Drink now.
This savory blend of 40% Merlot, 30% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Cabernet Franc and 5% Syrah opens with aromas of roasted coffee bean, leather, tobacco and dark woodland berry. The chewy palate offers juicy plum, cassis and clove alongside polished tannins. Drink through 2019.
Concentrated, ripe blackberry and cassis aromas come with peppery spice and cedary oak notes. This is big and generous on the palate, with roasted, well-oaked blackberry flavors. A touch of heat lends sizzle to the finish. Drink through 2020.
Moorooduc's estate Pinot Noir is a solid value among the boutique offerings from the Mornington Peninsula. There's a supple cushioning of flesh wrapped around a firm backbone of acid, while the flavors run from black cherry and mint through earthier notes of brown sugar and roasted parsnip. Drink now through 2020.
Smoky aromas of fresh-cut wood blend with berry and cassis form a welcoming, generous bouquet. This feels lively on the palate, albeit tartaric. Oaky plum, cassis and vanilla flavors finish full and agreeable. Drink through 2019.
L'Homme Mort is a northern extension of the Fourchaume Premier Cru vineyard, so called because this was where a local lord dispensed justice by death. It often produces cooler wines such as this. It is tight, with toasted bread hints and with a strongly tangy character. It does need to develop and shouldn't be drunk before 2018.
This is a super-ripe, still very young wine. It's showing all its concentrated fruits, wood aging flavors and dense texture as well as the firm tannins that will allow it to age. With its combination of black plum skin, blackberry and dark concentration, leave the wine until 2018.
Fresh boysenberries and a blueberry sorbet character mix with notes of minty tarragon, dill and hot gravel on the nose of this wine, from an area between Gilroy and Morgan Hill. Peppercorns are prominent on the relatively light palate, along with tobacco, espresso and boysenberry.
The steely character of a young Chablis is very apparent in this wine. It is crisp, lemon flavored and with a mineral edge. The wine has a juicy freshness, still young at heart and needing to age. Drink from 2018.
From the producer's monumental Atlas Peak vineyard, this is a tightly wound, solidly constructed mountain Cab, blended with a handful of Petit Verdot. Tobacco, black tea and a sliver of coconut intermingle around a medium-bodied whole that will benefit from cellaring, through 2021.
Big, bold, dark and chewy, this builds upon substantial black-cherry fruit and supporting acids. Still knitting together, it shows highlights of cedar and tobacco, along with thick tannins. Give this a couple more years of bottle age, and drink after 2018.
A juiciness of cherry and vanilla spark the opening of this wine, a celebration of the vintage, appellation and in this case, fruit-forwardness of the variety. With a backbone of oak and cedar, it has smooth tannins and medium weight, finishing in mocha chocolate. Drink now through 2022.
Sweetened tannins highlight a depth of chocolate and blackberry in this 100% varietal wine made in small amounts. Soft and juicy, it crafts a balance of richness and density around elegant spicy clove and cinnamon.
This wine draws from a handful of tremendous vineyard sites, including the producer's estate, Platt and Clary Ranch, all cool-climate and windswept. It's a tight, light and minimally messed-with wine, bright in cherry, pomegranate and rose.
This offers aromas of red rose, wild berry, dark cooking spice and a whiff of sun baked earth. The ripe palate offers black cherry marinated in spirits, licorice, game and a hint of chocolate alongside velvety tannins. The warmth of alcohol closes the finish. Drink 2018–2029.
Massively fruity, this is an apple/pear bonanza, fleshy and almost lasciviously delicious. The huge fruit flavors convey an impression of sweetness, though this is not identified as off dry. It has tremendous density and length.
It is the ripe dark Alicante Bouschet that dominates this firmly structured wine. It is packed with tannins along with a hugely dense texture and concentrated juicy berry flavors. It is very firm, still young. Wait until 2017.
An elegant blend from different estate vineyards, this widely available cuvée brings sturdy tannins and red currant fruit, highlighted with pretty baking spices. It would be an ideal match for roast duck with an orange sauce.
This wine is bone-dry, although with some age the shock of the acidity has been rounded out by a hint of toast. It's linear, fresh and intensely crisp, with citrus and almond tones. Drink this wine from a good vintage now.
Given four months in concrete egg, this is an exotically crisp and textured white, lean and high in acidity with plenty of mouthcoating body to find its balance. Lemon, grapefruit and tangerine are the highlights, finished in refreshing layers of white peach.
This wine over-delivers in quality for the price. It's made from mostly Cabernet Sauvignon, with handfuls of Merlot, Malbec, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Franc blended in to good effect. The whole combines into layers of chocolate and graham cracker, dappled in vanilla and jam. Thick tannins suggest a swirl or two of the glass. The finish is all tobacco.
Underbrush, smoke, mocha and dark fruit aromas lead the nose and carry over to the ripe palate along with dried black cherry, licorice and clove. Firm, velvety tannins provide the framework. Drink 2018–2028.
Generous black-cherry fruit anchors this barrel-aged wine that remains tartly acidic, with pretty accents of toast and mocha. Focused, young and fresh, it should drink optimally 2018–2028.
Dark red violet in color, this wine has aromas of cherry, lavender and rose petal. It is a well-balanced wine with flavors of black cherry, raspberry, Turkish delight and herbes de Provence. Silky tannins coat the palate into the lasting finish, which is punctuated by a note of bright cherry.
Berry, baking spice, dried iris, mint and a hint of vanilla come together on this structured wine. On the palate, notes of white pepper, sage, anise, orange zest and yellow peach accent the red cherry core while a balsamic note closes the finish. Firm, refined tannins provide the backbone.
This hearty red opens with aromas of leafy underbrush, leather, licorice and a hint of menthol. The firm, chewy palate offers ripe wild cherry, raspberry jam, anisette and tobacco. Brooding tannins support the dark flavors. Drink 2019–2029.
Enticing aromas of woodland berry, crushed rose, mint and menthol lead the nose on thisfull-bodied red. Mint carries over to the palate along with wild cherry, red raspberry, kitchen spice and a hint of toast. Assertive tannins and bright acidity hold it all together.
Aromas of French oak, coconut, vanilla and spiced plum lead the nose on this powerfully structured wine. The oak sensations carry over to the warm palate along with cherry marinated in spirits, licorice and menthol. Bracing, close-grained tannins provide the framework and need time to unwind. Best after 2020.
This delicious, refreshing wine is textured, tight and mineral, with fruity acidity. Tangy and crisp, it has a tight structure, touches of toast along with apple and citrus flavors. The wine is still young and very tight, so should not be drunk before 2017.
From a multiplicity of vineyards, this wine works and is a tremendous value for the price. It mixes hot mulled-cider spices, cinnamon, clove and pine forest, conveying surprising depth. Plum, dark cherry and more clove lead to a powerful, leathery finish.
The first Pinot Noir release from this producer, this is a velvety-smooth, exotic and charming wine, light on the palate despite a concentration of ripe, rich fruit. Kirsch, cherry, raspberry and cinnamon combine to make the wine invitingly lush and plush.
A red Meritage driven by 73% Cabernet Sauvignon, this structured, full-bodied wine also blends in 19% Merlot, 3% Petit Verdot and 3% Malbec. Blackberry and chocolate accent chalky tannins, with bold hits of black licorice, cassis, pencil and black tea. Drink now through 2020.
Bright, light oak shadings dress up this medium-bodied wine, complementing the red cherry and strawberry flavors. It's fresh, fruity and not very tannic—easy to drink and enjoy.
The local Baga grape, better known for producing structured red wines, also lends itself to fruity sparkling rosé. Bright acidity gives this crisp wine its tangy, red currant character. Drink now.
Aromas of white spring flower, orchard fruit and citrus spill out of the glass. The fun lively palate delivers ripe yellow peach and green apple alongside a foaming mousse.
A smoky scent and earthy, crisp-apple flavors make this medium-bodied wine a change of pace from the average butterball Chardonnay. It has welcome acidity and a nicely smooth texture.
This family-owned estate has produced an immediately attractive entry-level wine. Lightly spiced with wood, it blends Touriga Franca, Tinta Roriz and Tinta Barroca to show black fruit, ripe tannins and bright acidity. Drink now.
This is a smooth, soft wine that is full of black fruits and ripe tannins. The Merlot rounds out the rougher edges of the Malbec to give a rich juicy wine that will develop quickly. It is all fruit, generous and ready to drink from 2017.
This is an easygoing wine that's neither too oaky nor too crisp, with a decent blend of ripe pear and baking spice flavors paired with soft, smooth texture.
Blended with small amounts of Merlot, Cabernet Franc, Petit Verdot and Malbec, this is an austere, unfussy red made in modest quantities that has crisp red currant and cranberry flavors interwoven with cedar and dried herb.
Closer to Bordeaux than is Cahors, this is Malbec with a cooler visage. It has spice and stalky tannins along with plenty of acidity. The wine is bright with red berry fruits and a crisp lightly mineral aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
This is a blend of 60% Ugni Blanc and 40% Colombard that gives a deliciously light and refreshing wine. Bright and breezy, it is perfumed, herbal and full of direct citrus flavors. Drink now.
Juicy kiwi, lime blossom and sour apple candy aromas show on the nose of this ripe white—the first 2016 submitted from the region. The palate is oily in texture, with honeydew and more lime-kiwi-bubblegum flavors.
Brambly and herbal, this wine shows bright acidity underlying a full-bodied, incoherently ripe palate of tar, toffee and rich cola notes.
The nose is a bit shy but eventually reveals underbrush, red berry and a toasted note. The straightforward palate is quite lean, offering raw sour cherry, a green note of powdered sage and a hint of ground pepper alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish.
This Cabernet Sauvignon-dominant blend boasts leather, tobacco leaf and black pepper flavors, giving it muscle and a rustic edge, the tannins and fruit mellowed with age.
Fans of stickies may find pleasure in this bottling, but it is tremendously sweet and oily. Candied honeydew and kiwi scents meet with sweet juniper and pine on the nose. On the palate, it tastes squarely of golden honey. It's soft, unctuous and thick in consistency.
Aromas of ripe (leaning almost overripe) apple, melon and orange peel are followed by medium-sweet fruit flavors. It needs more acid to stand it up.
Strong wood smoke and grilled meat aromas lead to equally assertive oak and dried herb flavors, giving this wine extreme personality. It has medium body and rather soft tannins and texture to balance.
This medium-bodied wine has more earthy and floral flavors than straightforward fruit, so it's something a bit different. Well-priced and easy to drink, it can please a crowd.
This wine is dry and substantial, emphasizing earthy, savory flavors over fruity ones. An attractive walnut and almond element carries through from the aroma to the flavors.
This is from a hillside estate vineyard and is entirely barrel fermented, its oak subtle and supportive. Medium bodied and not overripe, it offers honeysuckle aromas and lime and lemon rind flavors.
This state-owned estate of forests and vineyards grows organic grapes. This wine, softly structured and ripe has light black fruits and plenty of acidity. An undercurrent of tannin keeps the wine in order and will allow it to age. Drink from 2018.
This copper-tinted rosé of Pinot Noir smells like a rubber gym ball and citrus fruits. A full round bouncy palate brings it around, while dry citrus and stone-fruit flavors show a skins-like quality on a steady finish.
This mountain-grown wine is hugely tannic and oaky, hard to penetrate in its full-bodied ripeness. Smoky oak and currant flavors vie for attention against a backdrop of concentration and power.
Savory apples and pears mingle into lemon and bramble in this slightly earthy off-dry Riesling. Sunny tangerine acidity is easy but bright, leading a delicately sweet finish.
Muted aromas of tart gooseberry and lime peel dance in the bouquet, while pithy flavors of plum skin, currant and citrus rind unfold on the lightweight, slightly astringent palate. Pleasant hints of fresh herbs and saline make a fleeting impression on the close.
Aromas of prune, raisin and black plum are full and gritty. A chunky full-bodied palate feels grabby, while this tastes of generic blackberry, burnt coffee and dark chocolate. A steady plump, rubbery finish closes the show.
Aromas of brandied cherry and crème de cassis include a horsey sidenote and some heat. This sweet Monastrell smacks the palate with hard tannins. Flavors of black cherry, cassis and baked plum finish blocky.
This pale pink-grey colored wine is a blend of Duras and Merlot. It is lively and fruity, with a red-currant flavor, delicious crisp acidity and a soft, lively aftertaste. Drink now.
This softly fruity wine has the lightest of tannins and plenty of simple red-berry fruits. There is an earthy edge to the young wine as well as plenty of acidity at the end. Drink now.
This broad, fruity wine brings out ripe berry flavors in spades. It has generous fruit, soft tannins and a smooth, open texture. Drink now.
Let this burly, big-boned beauty open to fully enjoy its robust oak and fistfuls of black cherry, the oak showing in terms of toasty, slightly reductive aromas. A smooth texture keeps the wine flowing along a concentrated highway of power and ripeness.
This small-quantity selection from within the Charles Vineyard was fermented by native yeast, and neither fined nor filtered. It is quite aromatic, full bodied and moderately fruity, and has a nice rounded mouthfeel, generous red-cherry and spice flavors and good structure from acidity and mild tannins. Tart cherry lingers on the finish.
A deeper salmon color with elegantly lacy bubbles and a slight cloudy appearance, this sparkler by Norm Yost offers dessicated watermelon, dried orange blossoms, yeast, citrus rinds and fresher strawberry notes on the nose. Tart raspberry and yeasty melon show on the palate, which offers a salty component as well as a surprising but nice amount of grip.
This wine takes time to unravel and reveal itself, rewarding the patient with a wealth of high-toned citrus and elegantly wound, medium-bodied honeyed pear and caramel. Lengthy and complex, it's one to consider aging and allowing to further mellow over time. Drink now through 2021.
This wine is tasty, tangy and nervy, bringing a very refreshing and appetizing mouthfeel, and wonderful fresh acidity. All of that tang shows good fruitiness too, as the red-cherry and cranberry flavors are vivid and concentrated. It's a versatile wine to drink now or buy by the case to save some bottles for more aging.
This medium-bodied wine has a compelling blend of restraint and power. It offers modest, fruity aromas at first, then nice tart fruit flavors that start off lean and soon expand exponentially in the mouth before tapering off elegantly on the finish. With little oak flavor in the way, it gives pure Pinot sophistication.
Renwood's tiny two-barrel production of its most expensive Zinfandel has aromas like vanilla and coconut and flavors as rich as milk chocolate and strawberry jam. This full-bodied wine is practically a liquid dessert, though it's not overly sweet. It's full-bodied, smooth and broad in texture.
This is a thick, chocolatey wine with a side of leather and black pepper that appeals on multiple levels. Full-bodied concentration gives way to a smooth, rounded palate robust in blackberry and vanilla.
Aromas of strawberry, currant and spice are good in a subtle, non-pushy way. Fresh and grabby on the palate, this tastes of red fruits, baking spices and cocoa. Drying tannins along with cassis and chocolate flavors push a healthy finish. Drink through 2020.
Scents of Spanish broom, pineapple, orchard fruit and a saline note meld together in the glass. The focused palate offers mature apple, peach, botanical herb and mineral alongside firm acidity.
Juicy and delicious, this has aromas of ripe orchard fruit and fragrant Spanish broom. The succulent palate doles out crisp Granny Smith apple, Anjou pear, nectarine and mineral alongside bright acidity.
Fairly light in the glass, this bottling shows chalk, slate and wet-sand minerality on the nose, alongside Asian pear flesh, kiwi and honeydew fruit notes. The texture is quite pithy once sipped, showing grapefruit and apple skins, and then it warms toward yellow pears and a sea salt warmth.
Meaty, smoky aromas and good, high-amplitude fruit flavors give a robust personality to this full-bodied, dry and firmly tannic wine. It will make a good pairing with pasta, roasted birds or grilled meat.
This is a delightfully crisp, elegant and lip-smacking wine, that's subtle and easy to love. Lemon peel, apple skin and pear play together well, never becoming distracting, but instead integrating well with one another and the light hint of oak. Food friendly, it's also a great deal.
While Cabernet Sauvignon dominant, all five red Bordeaux varieties are represented here. Dark in color, a combination of black pepper and black-fruit syrup meets earthy and dry tannins. This structured wine needs time. Cellar through 2020.
Quite dark in color, brooding aromas of olallieberry, blackberry, grape soda, plums and concentrated purple flowers appease the nose on this bottling from one of Paso's newly designated appellations. The palate blends licorice, turned earth and eucalyptus with a fresh pomegranate juice flavor.
A nose of sour cherry and cranberry meshes with sandalwood and savory herbs on this single-site study by the longtime Paso producer. The palate is overflowing with oregano and other dried garden herbs, laid against a juicy red and purple-fruit frame.
Heavy fruit concentration meets thick, velvety tannins in this full-bodied, deeply colored and extremely flavorful wine. It's big enough to pair with big proteins, and concentrated enough to keep improving in the cellar. Best after 2019.
Cherry, plum, vanilla and mild oak aromas feed into a medium-bodied, elegant palate with plum and cherry flavors supported by a touch of toasty oak and vanilla. Notes of café mocha and toast grace a crisp finish that isn't trying too hard.
Attractive fruity tones of red currant, raspberry and strawberry hull dance in the bouquet of this pretty rosé, graced by garrigue accents of lavender and rosemary. Flavors of red berry skin and peach pit unfold on the medium-weight palate, framed by soft tannins and a delicate spice note that lingers on the close.
Lightly structured, this is a balanced, ripe wine. It has profited from the good vintage to offer strawberry, raspberry and citrus flavors that are well balanced and textured. Drink this attractive wine now.
A sublime twist of citrus lies at the heart of this light yet complex white, which is refreshing and layered with a subtle bite of underlying oak. From a dry-farmed vineyard maintained by the same family for 30 years, this whole-cluster pressed wine was given time in a majority of stainless steel and neutral French oak. It shines in moderate acidity and tropical flair.
There is tons of lively action packed into the nose of this wine, from rosebuds and zesty cherry cola to cinnamon spice and rainbow peppercorns. The texture is relatively light on the sip, and yet grippy tannins and a bursting acidity swim across the palate, showing vibrant iron and red-fruit flavors.
Estate grown and aged in Stainless steel, this racy and pungent wine is packed with rich, juicy fruit flavors. Apple, lemon-lime and tangerine are in the mix, showing that Chardonnay does not always need oak flavors to have real power.
Clean, sharp and zesty fruit blossom aromas meet with ripe pomelo and green apple scents on the nose of this wine by Steve Dooley. A fresh, tingling acidity shows on the sip, which is a tad sour with stone fruit skins but bountiful in a slate-driven minerality and grippy texture. Cool climate Albariño has much promise in the state.
Red-cherry and strawberry aromas meld with rich fruit and warm baking-spice flavors to make this full-bodied wine hard to resist. The style is in the ripe, pastry shop mode, and soft tannins and acidity complete the picture.
This is an exuberantly fruity, spicy and robust wine, speckled with 2% Petite Sirah. Dark and full of red berry flavor, the palate is dusted in brown sugar and black pepper. Ripe and concentrated, it drinks smooth and elegant despite its serious power.
Aromas of white flowers, stone fruits and lees are typical of well-made Albariño. A juicy, elegant palate with a mix of citrus and stone-fruit flavors is lasting, with a hint of pithy character coming up on the finish.
Quite vibrant and floral on the nose, this shows deep blackberry and both dried and fresh purple-flower elements as well as a baked berry pastry. The flavors are well integrated on the palate, where cooked blackberries in a vanilla pie crust combine with juicy strawberry, peppercorns and rosemary spice.
This most intriguing white grape, which the Larners grow as an ode to their Italian past, shows a sweet nose with a bone dry palate. Sugary citrus scents of orange blossoms and peach syrup give way to a brisk palate full of honeysuckle, night jasmine and a nearly pine needle bitterness that cuts dynamically through it all.
Reflecting the vintage, this Pinot is light and lithe in style. It shows tart cherry fruit and suggestions of chocolate, with bright acidity and a thin finish.
This wine is a conversation starter, with its nose of mandarin orange, lemon peel and vanilla. On the palate, white flowers, citrus and lush tropical fruits mingle well. Pair with salmon and poultry.
Dusty, leesy aromas of apple and vanilla are sturdy. This brut Cava is fresh and modestly elegant on the palate, with lime, apple and tarragon flavors. A dry, confident finish offers apple and citrus flavors and a sense of ease.
Bright aromas of citrus and tropical fruit give this easygoing white an easy appeal. Balanced and fresh, it's an elegant wine that will pair well with grilled fish and salads.
Peach, pear and lemon on the nose start this cheerful white from Alpha Estate. On the palate, it offers some complexity of exotic fruit and with a vein of acidity. Soft overall in profile, this wine is easygoing and enjoyable.
Lightly herbal, horsey aromas of blueberry, black plum and cardamom are ripe by Carmenère standards. Hailing from a hot vintage, this is a bit flabby in feel, with soft tannins. Chunky plum and blackberry flavors finish with notes of licorice and mint along with a chewy, syrupy feel.
This well-balanced, fruity wine allows space for some solid dry tannins that also show wood aging. Berry fruits shine through the structure to give a juicy character that is underlined by the fresh acidity at the end.
In this fruit-forward vintage, it's not surprising to find that what shines here are the bright, spicy and tart flavors of strawberries, raspberries and cherries. The Sangiovese was co-fermented with 7% Syrah, and aged in 30% new American oak. As the wine breathes open the flavors of oak and char come up, and the tannins show some extra grip.
Aromas of leather, roast plum and compost are challenging and not immediately inviting. In the mouth, this shows rubbery tannins and juicy acidity. Saucy, herbal plum and currant flavors ride on a beam of acidity toward an earthy, tomatoey finish with a lightly leafy aftertaste.
Staunch berry, cassis and spice aromas are friendly and congruent. This Malbec-led blend is jammy in feel, a bit hollow in the middle, and easy to like as a whole. Blackberry and blueberry flavors finish fleshy, with soft tannins.
Winemaker Billy Wathen blends 60% Merlot and 40% Cabernet Franc into this blend that's named after the U.S. Geologic Survey's name for Happy Canyon. A nose of dried oregano and thyme has a Bing cherry backdrop, with a palate of green peppers, blackberries and tomato leaf.
A blend of fruit from three Rogue Valley sites, this is a fine example of the style of Pinot made in Southern Oregon. The estate vineyard sits at 2,100 feet on a steep, east-facing slope, with densely planted vines. It's a big, blocky, full-bodied wine, loaded with flavors of black cherry, black coffee and barrel toast. Tannins are substantial, but the flavors are full and forward. What it lacks in elegance it makes up for in immediate likeability.
Dense, tarry aromas of asphalt and rubbery boysenberry are hefty but also a bit flat. This has a tannic mouthfeel to go with blackberry, prune and raisin flavors. Toast, bitter chocolate and full-bodied weight push the finish on this oaky, ripe Rioja. Drink through 2020.
This medium-bodied wine shows an array of smoky, meaty aromas, along with ripe plum and tart blackberry flavors. Not at all overripe, but made with some restraint, it allows savory flavors like tarragon and anise to peek through. The blend includes 9% Cabernet Sauvignon.
The grape's usual peachy aromas show on this wine from regional pioneer Gary Eberle, along with lemon juice, honey and a touch of minerality. There is a nice mineral-driven tension on the palate, with flavors of apple and pear cider. It's a solid, down-the-middle take on the grape—not too ripe, not too thin.
Tightly focused, as is often true of single-vineyard bottlings, this matches spicy berry fruit to light barrel flavors of milk chocolate. It's smooth and accessible, but finishes a bit short.
Crushed plum, espresso, tobacco and cedar aromas unfold in the glass. A blend of 90% Merlot and 10% Alicante, the straightforward palate offers blackberries, red currants, clove and licorice alongside fine-grained tannins.
Aromas of wild berries, violets and a whiff of spice lead the nose on this blend of Sangiovese and 15% Merlot. The savory, easygoing palate offers mature black cherry, clove and black pepper alongside lithe tannins. Drink through 2016.
Structured and firm, this is a dry wine with the potential of fine fruit in the future. Acidity cuts through the texture promising the freshness of black currants and berries. It's a perfumed wine that can still age. Drink from 2016.
This has a light yellow color with a touch of green and a subtle smell of crisp green apples. Flavors that are richer than expected, like poached pears, butter and fig. The texture is rich, the body full and the ripe flavors linger on the finish.
Rhubarb, cola and pencil shavings emerge from the glass on this appellation blend from the longtime Santa Rosa Road winery, today owned by the Terlato family. Deeply earthy aromas of beet juice, root beer and dried berries arise on the palate, showing the region's typical blend of soil minerality and dark fruit.
Dark, charred, lemony aromas of graphite, licorice and blackberry are horsey and baked. This blend of 85% Cab Sauv and 15% Cab Franc has an intense, blocky, pinching palate and heavy flavors of black fruits, resiny oak, spice and salt. A woody, tannic, raw feel to the finish creates a bumpy landing. Drink through 2021.
Aromas of leather, cherry and plum lead this balanced red from Boutari. Ripe cherry, cedar and cinnamon flavors carry the palate, with soft tannins giving a sultry feel.
Made from what Californians call the Pommard clone, this has a light, traditional garnet color. Fresh and lively fruit aromas resemble cranberries and red cherries, followed by tangy fruit and cinnamon flavors of medium intensity, supported by firm acidity and moderate tannins.
This is aged in oak, but the vessels are large casks, or foudres, so the impact isn't that noticeable. The wine is meaty and savory on the nose, but the palate shows more herb-garrigue flavors and superripe cherry fruit. Drink now–2017.
Pleasant red-fruit aromas of cherry and raspberry are low in octane for Toro. A fresh but not overly dense palate is lively and vital, with wild berry, plum and brown sugar flavors. A warm, heady, generous finish is fruity and bright. Drink through 2018.
Here's a sleek Sangiovese that opens with scents of toasted oak, vanilla, blue flowers and mature plum. The round palate is already accessible, serving up sweet black cherry, black raspberry, licorice and mint framed in assertive but fine-grained tannins.
A robust blend of 70% Sangiovese and 30% Cabernet Sauvignon, this offers aromas of baked plum, mocha, menthol and oak-driven spice. The hearty palate initially opens with black fruit, chocolate, licorice and dried herb flavors but the heat of evident alcohol dominates the finish and the close.
Juicy and soft in blackberry and black cherry, this wine is nicely resolved in terms of tannin and oak structure,. These provide weight on the back palate, with enough heightened acidity on the finish to stay on balance. Strawberry and dried herb close things out.
Aromas of latex, tire rubber, spice, cured meat and berry fruits are rugged and require patience to sift through. This Cabernet Sauvignon-led blend is big and grabby, but not precise, with loud, herbal, muscular flavors of stewed plum, licorice and peppercorn.
Focused streaks of high-acidity lemon and a low oak profile combine for a refreshing take on Chardonnay, the other components coming together in swathes of fennel and brine. The wine finishes with a hit of power.
Oak aromas takes center stage with this wine by the Riboli family, with black cherry extract and a nearly Bourbon-barrel character on the nose. The rich, deep red fruit carries to the palate, which gains complexity from licorice and a tiny bit of tar.
Super earthy, in the classic damp forest-floor way, this also offers hints of menthol, eucalyptus and tomato leaf. The wine begins light bodied, but builds up power and weight as it goes. Layered with black cherry and plum, it's dark and savory.
Stainless-steel fermented and aged, this 100% varietal wine suggests kumquat, talc and wet stone. The flavor concentration is light with taut acidity the focus. It needs food; pair it with shellfish to see it shine.
Dark, minty, inky aromas of blackberry are rugged. Same for the palate, which is pinched and rubbery, with grabby tannins. Flavors of toasted, blackened berry fruits are chocolaty and well oaked. Raw heat and minty, coffee flavors rev up the finish on this Malbec-led blend.
Merlot (57%) takes the lead on this lighter-colored wine that offers raspberries, cherries, herbs and woodspice. The fruit flavors are fresh and elegant, with lightly chalky tannins.
This is a lush and powerful wine from a vineyard in the recently designated Paso Highlands district. Aromas suggest gingerbread topped with kirsch-soaked, chocolate-covered cherries. The palate is thick and heavy, with mocha, stewed plums, mashed cherries and black earth, which gain complexity from tannins and pencil lead.
Hailing from the recently designated Paso Highlands subappellation, this hearty wine shows earthy aromas of nutmeg, iron, hot rocks, loam and cherry extract. It's lush and ripe with cassis and black cherry fruit, yet shows a more elegant chalkiness on the palate as well, rounded out by cocoa powder.
Apple, nectarine, lees and briny aromas steer this Godello toward a round, full palate. Slightly bitter flavors of melon and peach finish much like the wine starts—briny and leesy. This is also pithy tasting, like the inside of a grapefruit peel.
Coffee grinds, raisin and baked aromas suggest overripeness. This is heavy, broad and a bit clumsy on the palate. Berry and prune flavors are solid but not overly fresh, while the finish is full and raisiny as it improves over time.
Dark-berry aromas are crisp and show a note of minerality as well as barrel char. This is firm, juicy and modest in structure, with flavors of blackberry and cassis touched up by some oak. A non-pushy finish with a hint of mocha is a good close.
Bright fruit is allied to a more mineral structure to give a wine that shows the freshness of the vintage plus a more long-term view. It is cool with red fruits and some firm tannins that act as a background. Drink from 2017.
Owned by the Cruse family, one of the Bordeaux wine aristocracy, this rich wine is dominated by Merlot, giving it ample weight. The 18 months of wood aging shows in the smoky edge to the wine, although this will soften. Drink from 2017.
The smoky aroma and toasty wood character smothers the fruit. It is a tough wine at this stage although it does hint at some of the 2012 juicy fruit flavors. Drink this firm, solid wine from 2018.
Intensely tannic, this structured wine has layers of wood aging, along with juicy fruits and bright acidity. There's a strongly smoky element, the wine's fruitiness balanced by a dark, toasty aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
This is a smoky, obviously wood-aged wine. The burnt toast character is still dominant, waiting for the attractive black currant fruits to catch up. It will develop into a bright, fruity wine, so wait until 2017.
A creamy, buttery texture wraps around a core of bright lemon and apple flavors. This is balanced slightly toward sweetness as the luxurious viscosity carries the vivid flavors into the finish.
This saignée-style wine is pale salmon in color, showing some bricking. It drinks dry with rounded suggestions of cherry and watermelon providing easy-drinking enjoyment.
Zesty and mineral, this unoaked, citrusy Chardonnay would make a particularly refreshing apéritif. Flavors of Asian pear and quince are crisp and cutting on the palate. Enjoy now for it's vivacious style.
Smoke and violet perfume are seductive on this elegant off-dry Riesling. Fresh green apple and pear flavors are tart but concentrated, wrapping up tightly with a squeaky-clean, lemon-lime finish.
Intense notes of crushed stone and slate permeate this stately off-dry Riesling. Pert lemon and tangerine flavors are zippy and fresh, but the wine is more a showcase for its brisk, stony style.
Figs and spice perfume this tawny Cabernet Franc ice wine. It's a bit rustic in style, evoking layers of fallen leaves and potpourri melding with dusty raisins and figs. But it's elegantly crisp and the exotic, uniquely spicy character is seductive.
This ripe, now soft wine has gentle red fruits and soft acidity. It's ready to drink with its rich texture and smooth structure. The end is rounded, only just hinting at tannins.
Owned by the same family as Château Talbot in Saint-Julien, this vintage of Sénéjac is now mature, showing signs of leather and a firm structure rather than fruit. It's unlikely to develop further, so drink now.
This is an aromatic wine with notes of rose water, pear and white flowers. It drinks medium sweet with abundant spice flavors throughout. Pair with spicy Thai dishes.
The aromas of this wine suggest plum, herb and pencil eraser. It's full flavored with dark blue fruit and chalky, dry tannins. An affordable and approachable wine best enjoyed now.
Though just four years old, this wine seems advanced with notes of dried cherry, vanilla, dried tobacco and blackberry. The dried cranberry and cherry flavors are rich and tart, backed by quite astringent tannins.
Tawny in color and wafting of potpourri and fallen leaves, this raspberry-inflected wine is already starting to show its maturity. Briskly concentrated and light on its feet, it makes an elegant sip to enjoy now before it loses its delicate, perfumed charms.
The aromas on this wine are quite light, conveying wood, herbs and red fruit. This contrasts with the sweet, rich fruit flavors with a gentle grip of tannins.
A mix of smoke and toast blends with fresh, crisp citrus aromas on the nose. That's followed by a foamy, reactive palate with flavors of pink grapefruit, orange, pepper and caramel. This remains foamy on the finish, which is peppery and slightly bitter in flavor.
A big, ripe and spicy wine, this is packed with woody notes as well as powerful fruit. It has solid tannins and dark flavors of bitter chocolate and black cherries. It's rich and concentrated, with good aging potential. Drink from 2018.
Blue flower, ripe berry, baking spice and mint aromas lead the nose on this full-bodied, elegant wine. The palate delivers juicy black cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon, licorice and mineral alongside firm, ripe tannins. It's young but already displays a great combination of structure and finesse.
There is earthy darkness and a hint of the forest in this Zin, grown at high elevation in the rocky soils of the Rockpile appellation, these vines planted in 2001. The wine is magnificently structured with complex, ripe blackberry and cherry compote coming to the fore slowly and seductively.
Crushed raspberry, blue flower, tilled soil and graphite aromas lead the nose on this firmly structured wine. It's still very young and needs to open up fully, but the palate already displays breeding and class. It offers ripe black cherry, ground black pepper, licorice and grilled sage alongside tightly wound but fine tannins. Drink 2018–2026.
The chalk soil of the Rosacker vineyard has produced a rich, intensely fruity wine that is shot through with steely minerality and a wonderful perfumed character. It's so crisp and fresh while also being densely textured and complex. The wine has a long future, drink from 2017.
Beautifully balanced, this conveys both rich fruit and a tense, intense minerality. Combining the two strands impeccably, it brings out tangy apple and pink grapefruit flavors and a steely, tight acidity. It's a structured wine that needs to age. Drink from 2018.
Tones of black cherry, toffee, tobacco, tar and violet show boldly on the nose and palate of this Moroccan red. Powerful tannins provide a suitable backdrop for fruit and spice flavors alongside an ever-present sense of brightness that lasts into the finish.
Intense aromas of dried rose, leather, truffle and crushed berry lead the nose. The ripe, forward palate offers crushed black cherry, wild raspberry, cinnamon white pepper and sage alongside chewy tannins. Drink 2015–2022.
Paradis is a parcel within the Pfingstberg Grand Cru, giving particularly fine and rich Riesling. This ripe and full-bodied wine manages to preserve all the elegance and style of the grape while having full tropical fruits, juicy acidity and a warm, rounded aftertaste. It will certainly age, so drink from 2017.
This late release, aging for five years, has produced a majestic wine. Its breadth of flavor, with ripe fruits as well as intense structure, are gently transitioning from the first flush of youth to a more mature character. Intensely textured, tight, ready to spring, it shows the beauty of maturing Riesling. Drink now, although it will age many more years.
Produced for Force Majeure by Syncline's James Mantone, this riveting wine is a blend of 47% Mourvèdre, 42% Syrah and 11% Grenache. Lush and redolent with wild berry and wet rock aromatics, it carries a thread of sweet grain along with bright, detailed berry fruit and balancing acidity. Delicious already, it can be enjoyed now through 2020.
More people would crave Mourvèdre if it were done in this style, with light rather than heavy leather scents alongside purple fruits. Once sipped, it hits the tastebuds with blueberry soda, tobacco, licorice, black pepper and wild game, all restrained and juicy rather than brooding and thick.
Rounded, rich and full in the mouth, this offers swathes of flowery, aromatic fruit that is still young, still in its primary stage. With just a hint of steely texture, the wine does have structure and aging potential. For now, it is generous and delicious.
The winery's proprietary block of Zin grapes (planted in 1999) from the coveted Stagecoach Vineyards contributes to an intense wine. Juicy and oaky, it's dense in cherry and plum, a note of lavender and sage complementing the whole. A thick liqueur sense characterizes the texture, but the palate stays alive through the site's rocky minerality. This one'll age.
Ripe and delicious, this starts off with aromas of fresh violet, rose, perfumed berry, exotic spice and tilled earth. It's still young but the palate already delivers a great depth of flavors including juicy black cherry, crushed raspberry, clove and black pepper alongside chewy tannins. Drink 2016 to 2021.
From one of the many recent exceptional years in Sauternes, this ripe, unctuous wine has balanced the rich honeyed fruit and the drier edge of botrytis. It's full in the mouth, with Seville orange and a light touch of ginger. Drink from 2019.
A case study in cool-climate, estate-grown Syrah, the white pepper on the nose and palate is playful and exuberant, the acidity buoyant and lingering. The fruit takes on hushed tones of wild berry and bramble, with a soft texture inviting one in for more.
Chris Gorman is the winemaker for this pure, old vine Cabernet Sauvignon. Despite the high alcohol and the use of 100% new French oak, most of the old vine nuances are still there—a wild mix of heather and herb with berry and grain scents that weave together in the mouth. Brambly and tart, with strawberry and cherry fruit, it's a compelling wine that keeps you on your toes.
Addictive aromas of hot blackberry pie laced with cinnamon, allspice, cola nut and a stewed cherry sauce reveal the promise of this popular Los Alamos Valley vineyard. Dark plum fruit, but with the acidity of the plum skin, meets with candied flavors of blackberry syrup and the freshness of soda water. A hedonistic Syrah.
Almost ready to drink, this wood-aged wine is packed with herbs, dark berry fruits and the first signs of secondary spice and leather flavors. The tannins are still powerful and need to soften further, so drink this complex, concentrated wine from 2016.
Somewhat light in color, this is an aromatically appealing wine that shows a complex assortment of coffee, vanilla, pencil lead, cherry, blueberry and high-toned herbal notes. It's exquisitely polished in its styling, with plush tannins and a long, lingering finish. A pretty expression of the variety that shows a great degree of elegance and deftness, it drinks well out of the gate but continues to improve with additional time to breathe.
From a seven-acre section of the vineyard, this offers plenty of saddle leather and cedar amidst spicy cardamom layers, a soft, juicy core and tingling acidity. The structure and weight suggest the ability to cellar comfortably through 2020.
Pure Petit Verdot from Red Mountain's quintessential Bordeaux varietal vineyard—does it get any better? Big, deep and tannic, with lovely purity, this features ultraripe fig and plum fruit with a pleasing salinity. The finish is persistent and shows a streak of iron. Note the alcohol is pushing 16% however it is beautifully integrated.
Principally Klipsun vineyard fruit, this is a mass of black cherry and cassis, wreathed in smoke from aging in 80% new French barrels. Great balance and length carry it through into drying tannins. A perfect steakhouse Cabernet.
Structured and energetic, this has a balsamic nose that offers aromas of menthol, mint, fennel, ripe berry, leather and a whiff of violet. The palate delivers crushed red cherry, black raspberry, baking spices and licorice alongside assertive tannins and fresh acidity. Drink 2017–2025.
This ripe, full wine has both great minerality and rich white fruits that are aromatic as well as very fresh. The fruits are laced with citrus to give a complex wine that deserves aging. Drink from 2017.
Floral aromas lead into a rich, not quite dry wine that is beautifully ripe and perfumed. It is rounded and opulent while preserving the steely, mineral texture. Still young, it demands aging. Drink from 2017.
As its name implies, this wine comes from chalk soil, giving both a strongly mineral character and ripe tropical fruit flavors. It's rich, full in the mouth, dry but with such a ripe character there seems to be some sweetness. It's impressively full and ready to drink now.
Produced from old vines, this is an impressive wine, rich and dense. It brings together dark tannins and opulent black fruits that cushion the firm structure. A lively acidity and a silky character show that the wine is ready to drink.
This opens with a pretty fragrance of violet, exotic spice and perfumed berry. The juicy palate doles out ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, freshly ground pepper, mocha and anisette. It's nicely balanced with fresh acidity and firm but polished tannins.
Smoky and toasty, this is a structured wine. It has layers of black currant fruits, fresh acidity as well as firm tannins that overlay the juicy fruitiness. It needs to age. Drink from 2016.
While the wine is rich, it's also very crisp and fruity. Tight acidity and a chalky, steely texture are balanced by ripe apples and pink grapefruit. It's a wine for drinking this year, bright and fruity.
A tight and herbaceous wine that is crisp, mineral and fresh. It shows a great potential for fruitiness, with natural juicy acidity as well as a bright, aromatic aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
Round and velvet smooth, it has blackberry fruits that are full in the mouth, giving freshness while also making the wine rich and generous. The tannins are already well-integrated into this soft wine. Drink from 2015.
Crisp and deliciously fruity, this is lively and bright. Acidity points up the lime and grapefruit flavors, leaving a fresh, juicy aftertaste. Drink now for maximum pleasure.
Full-bodied and resplendent in ripe apple and brioche, this well-crafted wine is layered and smooth. It would pair well with grilled salmon or herb-roasted chicken.
Toasty scents and flavors of the barrels (40% new) cloak tart raspberry fruit. It's clean and efficient, though for the moment at least, the barrel flavors outrun the rather light fruit. That can change over time, so give this one until 2015 or so in bottle.
This playful pink has fun aromas of cinnamon, red berry and bubble gum that lead to flavors of sour cherry and red plum on the palate. The finish is big, fruity and generous.
Bright orange juice, dill herbs and a slight whiff of vanilla bean lead the aromas on this un-oaked Chard. On the palate, flavors of apple cider come with a wash of fresh lime juice on the back end.
This white combines 48% Roussanne with 35% Marsanne and 17% Viognier to creamy, tropical effect, its balance between ripe melon and pear fruitiness and spiced acidity well woven. From one of the few sources of some of these grapes in the Russian River Valley, this Rhône-inspired wine is ready to pair with lobster or a roast turkey dinner.
Taking time to come around aromatically, it opens up with plum and bright red cherry fruit that follow on the palate, a touch of savory tobacco suggested around the tannins. On the finish expect a balance of spice and sweet as black pepper and caramel compete for affection.
Made for early drinking, this bright wine delivers red berry fruit lightly accented with sage and baking spices. It's not an ager so enjoy now through 2020.
Sourced from the estate vineyard—the same vineyard that fuels the Private Stash reserve—this shows a dusty, somewhat charred character, presumably from the barrel aging. Along with the slightly burnt toast character comes plenty of black cherry fruit, and acids that leave a slightly chalky impression in the finish.
The other realm of the coin from Brown Ranch, Toyon is leaner and lighter, its color even subdued, a study in wild strawberry and layered floral highlights, oak and cardamom spice. It bristles with acidity, pleasant to sip on its own or with bacon-wrapped figs.
This is a frizzante style of Muscat, the pressure slight enough to allow for a screwcap seal. Off-dry, spicy and aromatic, it's a great sipping wine, with concentrated flavors of sweet orange-pekoe tea.
This opens with aromas of black plum, oak, espresso, black pepper, balsamic notes and a whiff of barnyard. The bracing palate delivers crushed dark cherry alongside oak sensations of espresso, toast and vanilla. Aggressive wood tannins cut this short and give an astringent finish.
The winery's signature widely distributed white is heady in flowery jasmine, with vibrant acidity and a sense of sweetness on the palate thanks to fresh fruit flavors of grapefruit, peach and nectarine. An ideal wine for summer or whenever one needs to recall a summer's day.
Smells of rust, iron, tomato and untracked peppercorns rise to the nose. On the palate, the wine is quite light and racy, with a little boysenberry and more sanguine flavors. Hold onto this one until 2016 for maximum enjoyment, as more flavors will emerge.
Black plum, chocolate-covered cherry and mocha sensations come together alongside forceful tannins. It's rather ripe and forward for the vintage. Drink 2018–2025.
This is brilliantly purple in color, with jumpy, untamed black-fruit aromas. In the mouth, it is tannic and clawing, with a cheek-drilling mouthfeel. Syrupy blackberry flavors offer baking spice and clove accents, while the finish is showing unabsorbed oak and monster tannins.
Dusty black cherry and dark plum aromas are ripe and friendly. This is a plump, modern-style red with a clean mouthfeel and weight. Berry fruits, spice and oak flavors blend well, while the finish is, in general, full, smooth and adequately fresh. Tempranillo with 10% Petit Verdot.
This fresh and fruity sparkling wine is crisp with apple skin and apricot flavors. Ripe and full in the mouth , it has a lightly creamy mousse. The blend of Chenin Blanc and Chardonnay gives delicious fruitiness and tight final acidity.
Chalky earth, black pepper and clove comprise the nose on this wine, which gets a boost from 10% Merlot. The flavors are spicy and complex, with cedar, tea and a tiny bit of varietally distinct green pepper.
Oso Libre ventures into the nonvintage category with this blend of 10 wines from the past five years, delivering a nose with blackberry and a pinch of pepper. The meaty wine really gets your attention once sipped, with boysenberry, cracked peppercorn, some iron and a lingering licorice flavors.
Made from vineyards throughout the village of Serralunga d'Alba, this straightforward wine is still closed. It reveals black cherry, espresso, prune and subtle oak alongside a note of tire rubber. It's still extremely young, with aggressive tannins that dry out the finish.
A lemon-scented, crisp wine, it's also full of ripe yellow fruits. It's a warm in style, rich with both fruit and an open texture. Almonds and acidity give a refreshing aftertaste.
This is a great sunny day wine, starting with aromas of honeydew melon, ripe nectarine and lemongrass. There is a slightly peachy, bubblegum character once sipped, with lemon-lime soda in the midpalate and a flinty, gunmetal finish.
A brighter, more mineral- and acid-driven take on the often rustic Rhône grape, this kicks off with fresh smells of raspberry and rock. The palate brings tart cherry, followed by just-ripe black berry and really ripe raspberry on the midpalate, and a tartness on the finish.
There's a lot happening on nose of this wine from Sta. Rita Hills pioneer Richard Sanford's recently rejuvenated Alma Rosa label. Aromas suggest light butterscotch, baked pear, fresh pluot and jasmine. Once sipped, the flavors don't live up to the aromatic promise, but apple, pear and a sharper tangerine rind round out the flavors.
Immediately this smells raisiny, but with time secondary scents of cinnamon and Middle Eastern spices come into play. The body is soft and extracted, with modest acidity. Flavors of baked black fruits, fig paste, chocolate and herbs follow the nose, as does a chocolaty, rich  finish. Drink through 2016.
Packed with tannin, it is not showing much sign of fruit yet. It is dark, brooding and very firm in texture, with just with a hint of juicy black cherry flavors. Wait until 2017 before drinking.
A very fruity wine, it shows rich wood flavors as well as equally rich fruit. It is complex, very mineral in character, tight and nervy. The citrus fruit is matched by the apricot flavor, putting down layers of acidity. Don't drink before 2017.
The southern Napa Coombsville area is near San Pablo Bay, making it a cool area. In this vintage, it shows the acidity and mineraity of its terroir, but also the ripeness Chardonnay can achieve in a good vineyard, with orange and apricot flavors enhanced with oak. Drink now.
From the estimable Shake Ridge Ranch, winemaker Rosemary Cakebread has fashioned a lovely blend from 53% Grenache, 31% Syrah, 14% Mourvèdre and 2% Viognier. Opening with leathery tannins, the rich and savory concoction imparts juicy dark plum, tobacco and especially coffee.
The vintage was a great one not only for J's dry table wines but for its sparklers. This brut, a classic Chardonnay and Pinot blend, with a drop of Pinot Meunier, is dry, with complex lemon, orange, yeast, vanilla, cream and toast flavors. The bubbles are ultra-fine, raising the appeal.
This is such a good Pinot, and so reflective of the Sonoma Coast, that its price makes it a steal. With low alcohol and brisk acidity, it's translucent in color, with a gleaming ruby hue. The mouthfeel is silky and delicate, yet the raspberry, cola and buttered cinnamon toast flavors are intense. Drink now–2020.
This wine has more structure and depth than most Pinot Biancos from Alto Adige, thanks to vineyard location and 20% aging in large casks. It delivers sensations of apples and exotic fruit along with a flinty note. The creamy texture is brightened by lively acidity.
Pure Alvarinho from the Monção region, it's rich, creamy and textured. Lined with great acidity, it also has intense apple, bitter orange and a strongly herbal element. While it's ready to drink, this complex wine will benefit by waiting until 2015.
This wood-aged wine comes from a small parcel of old vines in the Quinta Nova vineyard. With its ripe, smooth and creamy texture, it has a full, almost Burgundian feel. Ripe peach combines with vanilla to make a wine that has concentration and richness, cut with final acidity.
A great follow-up to the winery's 2011, made this time from an esteemed vineyard in one of the coldest parts of the valley. The vintage was difficult, but the wine is rich in raspberry, cranberry and persimmon flavors, brightened by crisp acidity and finishing totally dry. There's no reason not to drink it now.
Here's a delicious Soave with depth and character. Floral aromas of Spanish Broom and chamomile take center stage, accented by a smidge of exotic fruit and graphite. The juicy palate offers honeydew melon, white peach, ripe pear, citrus and mineral purity balanced by fresh acidity.
Classic varietal aromas include stone fruit, crushed tomato vine, freshly cut grass and green melon. The palate offers a depth of flavors that include creamy white peach and ripe cantaloupe that are brightened by firm acidity. It closes on a flinty mineral note.
The estate wine from Château du Cèdre is anything but simple. A powerful series of tannins and dense black fruits offer both a dark texture and great fruitiness. Acidity comes through strongly and, with the tannins, promises aging. Drink from 2017.
The minty aromas indicate new wood aging as well as a ripe, polished texture. They make for a wine that has presence and structure as well as rich fruitiness, blackberry flavors and a dry, solid core. It's a sophisticated wine that can age. Drink from 2017.
Made from 100% Cabernet, this wine shows the intensity of fruit that Mount Veeder is capable of expressing. It also has excellent acidity. But the tannins are astringently strong, giving a numbing sting to the palate. This certainly needs time. Give it until 2022 and beyond.
Right out of the bottle, this 100% Syrah delights for its overall balance and deep, rich array of cherries and blueberries. If you pay attention, you'll find more complex layers of sautéed wild mushrooms, grilled prosciutto and toast. Dry and tannic, and would be ideal with roasted lamb.
There is a great balance here between the creamy fruit and the wood flavors. Apricots, ripe apples and melon are spiced with the right amount of toastiness. The wine has a rich, warm feel. It is still young, so wait until 2015 to drink.
Hugely tannic at this stage, this dense and complex wine has great structure partnered with dark black fruit and licorice. There is forward bitterness, suggesting this wine needs aging. Drink from 2017.
This is a ripe and smoothly textured wine. It is already finely balanced, rich with toast, apricot fruits and a tight, mineral character. It is enjoyable now but will age well until 2022.
Sourced from a 15-acre vineyard on Parrett Mountain, this displays single vineyard specificity. Entry is surprisingly soft, and (perhaps influenced by the name) there seems to be a pleasing clay-like quality to the mouthfeel. Clean blueberry fruit leads into a tasty, balanced finish.
Still firm and closed, this is a structured wine, solidly tannic with just hints of fruit. It has a dry feel to it, firm, the acidity and red fruits coming through the leathery, dark texture. The wine needs aging, so drink from 2017.
Violets, truffles and ripe black fruits are present in this structured wine. It has almost too much richness, but there is plenty to admire. Solid tannins, a dark, heavy texture and complex acidity all show aging potential. Drink from 2018.
Sourced from the Chalice (estate) vineyard, this aromatic and seductive wine presents a compelling mix of tree fruits, racy acidity, and a rich, textural, open mouthfeel. The flavors of pears, orange peel and snappy spices linger deliciously through a long finish.
This is a gigantic Syrah, a tsunami of blackberry jam and milk chocolate, with headier notes of cassis liqueur and toasty buttered oak. That sounds sweet, but the wine is thoroughly dry. The tannins are thick, but finely ground and negotiable now. It might last in the bottle for many years, but there's no point in aging it. Enjoy now with elaborate roasts and stews.
A ripe, wood-aged wine, it's richly smoky and fruity at the same time. The blend brings out honey, ripe apricots and peach. Acidity cuts through at the end to give a final, delicious lift. Drink now, but best wait until 2015.
The hue is an elegant peach just starting to blush with pink. The wine is entirely dry, with low alcohol framing intricate flavors of peaches, limes and vanilla, brightened by crisp acidity.
A savory Sauvignon with intensity and balance, it has aromas of cantaloupe and crushed tomato vine. The vibrant palate offers juicy green melon, pineapple and citrus together with a mineral note. Fresh acidity leaves a clean, crisp finish.
This savory Pinot Grigio has a little weight on it thanks to grape selection and 20% aging in large barrels. It delivers classic Granny Smith apple, Bartlett pear, nutmeg and flint in a creamy texture brightened by fresh acidity.
With a light, silky mouthfeel and mouthwatering acidity, this Pinot satisfies for its rich array of raspberries, cherries, spices, cola and smoky oak. It defines the Carneros style: tart, a little earthy and ageworthy. Drink now–2019.
De Loach continues to impress with this Lake County vineyard-designate, a well-balanced Zin with plenty of density amid its brick tar and brambly blackberry fruit. With leveled acidity along with plenty of power, it'll both age and be pleasing to drink now, with smoky meats.
This standout Rocks District wine brings earth shaking aromas of black-olive brine, tapenade, green olive, stargazer lilies, orange peel and crushed gravel. The smoked meat, charcuterie and blue-fruit flavors don't hold back, bringing a lovely sense of texture and detail. It's an intense wine that completely demands your attention.
Entirely estate grown from dry-farmed grapes, this white sparkles with waxy apricot and pear flavors and crisp, underlying mineral stoniness. Dry, with refreshing acidity, it doesn't skimp on mouthfeel, delivering a viscosity that's invitingly complex and lingering.
This complex and fragrant wine opens with dried violet, black plum and cooking spice aromas. The smooth, well-structured palate doles out blackberry jam, pipe tobacco, ripe black cherry, nutmeg and licorice flavors. Velvety tannins provide elegant support. Drink through 2027.
From a combination of dry-farmed estate fruit and grapes sourced in Carneros, this lovely white is fermented in stainless steel, which coaxes a seamless, light-bodied crispness on the palate. Exotic white peach and briny stone highlight a heady aromatic thread of honeysuckle, ginger and wild vanilla.
Winemaker Bill Brosseau hits a single vineyard home run with this bottling from one of the Central Coast's oldest sites. It shows exotic plum, tangy cranberry, pine needle, juniper and pencil shaving scents on the nose. The palate is steeped in mulberry, marjoram and curry-like Indian spices, proving dynamic and delicious in the most compelling ways.
Yields were down in 2015, but intensity is up, giving this medium-bodied, silky wine the potential to drink well through at least 2025. Hickory smoke outlines white peach before ending in a long flurry of lime zest.
The estate's 13 acres were first planted in 1999. This lovely wine expresses itself with perfectly ripened black-cherry fruit, a dash of cola, and an underpinning of clean earth, complemented with a touch of mineral. The finish is superb.
Consistently outstanding Pinot Noir producer Black Kite has done it again. This bottling comes together in a seamless symphony of aromas and flavors. Ripe fruit, subtly spicy oak and forest floor notes fill the glass. Its opulent texture unfolds into layers of baking spice, earthiness, and red and black cherry fruit, with a long, complex finish.
Powerful tannin meets subdued fruit in this layered, youthful wine. Concentrated and focused, with rose petal, sage and wild strawberry notes, it holds back teasingly before slowly unraveling to reveal velvety texture and corpulent weight.
There is a darker fruit spectrum evident in the reserve, with notes of coffee, smoke, black fruits, a touch of charred wood all worked through, and without damping the core fruit flavors. Those bright flavors spotlight raspberry, plum and black cherry. A light cola flavor pokes through, with ripe tannins and proportionate acids. The barrel treatment is beautifully applied, adding sweet spice to the finish.
From the famous site on Westside Road outside of Healdsburg, this bold red shows orange, dark cherry and pungent earth scents, remaining savory at its core. Medium-bodied and balanced with acidity, it takes on a meaty persona seasoned with pepper, clove and black tea.
Elegant and savory, this vibrant white offers enticing Spanish broom, yellow stone fruit, wet stone and crushed thyme aromas. The vibrant, ethereal palate carries subtle, tantalizing layers of yellow peach, tangy tangerine, lemon drop and pineapple with lively acidity. A graphite note closes the lingering finish. Too elegant for some palates, it shows impressive balance and depth, despite the cool, wet vintage.
Hands down one of Italy's best whites, this boasts alluring white flower and yellow stone fruit scents. The enveloping, delicious palate delivers white peach, mature pear, ginger and lemon drop flavors. Fresh acidity brightens the creamy flavors while a mineral note energizes the finish.
This impressive 100% varietal wine shows focused red fruit, a tropical edge of coconut and firm, structured tannin. Sage, cedar, tobacco and black pepper notes provide a sultry, savory counterpoint to the fruit, balanced with moderate acidity. Enjoy 2023–2033.
This gorgeous wine deftly integrates a lively mix of currant, cherry, breakfast tea and dried leaves into a seamless and seductive whole. Produced from vines dating back to the early 1970s, it finishes with a delicious streak of milk chocolate. Drink now through 2030.
From a prime site relatively high in elevation for the appellation, this wine shows beautiful, crisp acidity, as robust layers of mountain raspberry, blackberry and coffee flavor vie for attention. Full bodied and densely structured, it unfurls in wisps of black licorice and clove on the lengthy finish.
This pretty, floral wine made entirely from Chardonnay grapes from this site is both creamy and crisp. It offers impressive length, acidity and stoniness, accenting its focused green apple flavor. As it opens, it takes on a richer honey-like tone that adds further complexity and deliciousness.
Intensely aromatic, yet big and even chunky in the mouth, this young wine remains compressed and hard-edged. Give it ample aeration, and cranberry, blackberry and black cherry fruits come alive. Dense with fruit and detailed with wet stone minerality, this should be cellared a few years, and consumed from 2020 to 2030.
The wine comes from the grand showpiece estate of Madiran. A blend that is dominated by Tannat produces a wine that is still so young. Bold fruits and firm tannins are right to the fore, along with acidity and a strong mineral texture. It's a powerful and impressive wine that also manages elegance as well. The wine will take several more years to soften. Drink from 2020.
The aromas pop, with notes of orange peel, ember, cured meat, black olive and wet stone, with purple fruit lurking in the background. The palate is surprisingly fruit forward, with plum and savory flavors that coat the palate from end to end. The finish glides for a full 30 seconds.
This is a wine that is beginning to show some fine maturity. There are ripe fruits still very present, but they are matched by the secondary flavors, spice and warm tannins along with the classic herbal character of Mourvèdre. The wine is produced from organically grown grapes, giving purity as well as some serious structure in the background. Drink from 2018.
Spicy yet sweet aromas of sarsaparilla root, saddle leather and earthy berry fruits precede a rich dense palate. This tastes of dark cherry and berry fruit, with an herbal shading adding complexity. Chocolaty oak takes hold on a solid long finish. Drink through 2024.
This is one of the classics among Provence rosés. Produced from organically grown grapes and coming from an impressive red-wine producing estate east of Aix-en-Provence, the wine is structured and ageworthy with its blend that includes Cabernet Sauvignon. Rich and full of red fruits, the wine should be drunk from late 2017.
Ripe pure black-fruit aromas are touched up by notes of malty chocolate and mocha. This is proportionally big, with cheek-grabbing tannins, but it's not overly hard or unbalanced— just the opposite. Flavors of mocha, coffee, hazelnut and ripe berry fruits finish flush, dense and firm, with toasty notes and powerful but controlled residual tannins. Drink through 2030.
This single-vineyard estate wine is made by Nils Venge and Tom Rinaldi, who have somehow managed to capture quiet elegance and powerful fruit at the same time. Red-fruit driven, it's round and rich, with moderate tannin and cassis, clove and black pepper highlights.
This is an impressively rich, still very young wine. Dominated by Bandol's own Mourvèdre grape, it is dense and concentrated. Spice and dark red fruits are shot through with a wonderful herbal character that conjures the southern warmth. The wine is still just setting out and will not be ready to drink before 2019.
Open-grain oak aromas are out front, followed by sweeter scents of marzipan, prune and chocolate. A full, tannic palate is deep and dense, while toasty blackened flavors of cassis and blackberry finish with notes of mocha, chocolate and pepper. This is a bit rough and tannic, so cellaring will help it calm down. Drink through 2023.
This is a serious wine with a lighter brighter side. Its wood aging adds spice to the ripe red fruits and brings out the concentration and intensity. It is, in its way, an unexpected side of Provence rosé, emphasizing richness and complexity. But it all comes together: a fine wine that, after a year of aging, is ready to drink.
From old vines in a tree-enclosed vineyard on the third terrace above the River Lot, this wine forms part of a range of wines featuring the soils and terraces of the Cahors vineyard. Named in homage to Marguerite de Massaut, a 16th-century owner of the estate, the wine is aged in new wood that gives it a minty character. That is balanced by the rich black-plum and truffle flavor and the intense acidity. The wine needs to age, so drink from 2021.
Polished in every way, this brings an enticing potpourri of almond paste, apple and white pepper. Wild yeast fermentation in oak (30% new) marries complex components in perfect precise balance. As with all the Ponzi 2014 Chardonnays, the acids are bright but not biting, and the wines are built for both near-term enjoyment and medium-term aging.
Scents of woodland berry, rose petal, grilled herb, anisette and a balsamic note emerge on this firmly structured wine. On the robust palate, white pepper, licorice, sage and a hint of toast weave through the black cherry core. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on the close. Drink 2018–2028.
Juicy, sun-kissed grapefruits and apple blossoms explode from this buoyantly fresh, off-dry Kabinett. Invigorating acidity lends backbone and a steely focus that resonates long on the finish. It's beautiful now, but should hold nicely, and perhaps improve, through 2020.
Dense, rich red fruit belies an elegant wine that finds balance despite the concentration of vanilla and berry. Soft, approachable and integrated tannin and oak let the whole exist as one, instead of separate parts. This shows off the appellation's mountain fruit and rocky minerality.
Lightly leesy aromas of vanilla cookie are offset by crisp minerally apple and stone-fruit scents. This is pure and lifted by fine acidity, while flavors of apple, pineapple and lemon-lime end fresh, with a distant note of citrus pith. Drink immediately.
From the Lovall Valley section of the Napa Valley quite near Sonoma, this lovely wine is awash in tropical mango, with lilts of pear and vanilla. Creamy, it's made in a fuller-bodied style but never gets ridiculous, instead offering balance and elegance, finishing with a squeeze of grapefruit.
The top wine in the Rocim range is produced from selected Alicante Bouschet grapes. It is huge and powerful, perhaps too much in its concentration, richness and density. Dark and brooding, it is super everything and certainly needs to calm down. Drink from 2019.
There's a cantaloupe-like ripeness on the nose of this blend of 37% Grenache Blanc, 33% Viognier and 30% Roussanne, but not overdone, layered with seared white peach, caramelized pear, poached apple and almond aromas. The palate is more restrained and quite grippy, with flavors of green-apple skins, Bosc pear and a touch of honey.
This lush offering opens with appealing aromas of rose petals and fresh strawberries, then glides into a smooth-as-silk midpalate. The berry/cherry fruit is nicely adorned with toasty barrel flavors, and it's as satiny as new sheets. You'll find it hard to keep from gulping this by the glassful.
A pretty salmon-pink in color, and a lovable quaffer, this wine is dry, crisp and brightly refreshing in succulent waves of grapefruit and tangerine, remarkably light in alcohol but not shy in flavor. Enjoy it on its own or with a range of foods—its lightness begets versatility.
Aromas of slightly stewed fruit, steeped berry, spice and menthol unfold in the glass. The firm palate delivers juicy cherry, crushed raspberry, licorice, ground pepper and a mint note while bracing tannins and racy acidity provide the backbone. This needs a few more years to calm down and will continue to age well for a decade or more. Drink 2018–2026.
Pretty aromas of blue flower, rose, wild berry and graphite lead the way. The firm palate delivers mature black cherry, raspberry, star anise, black pepper and chopped sage alongside bright acidity and tightly knit tannins that need to unwind. Drink 2018–2026.
Bittersweet at first, with sizable tannins, this Cab also contains 13.8% Petit Verdot. Red and black berries give it a juicy palate atop dusty, chalky tannins and a richness of leather and clove on the finish.
Aromas of perfumed berry, mint, baking spice and a whiff of oak emerge on this structured wine. The firm palate offers wild red cherry, crushed raspberry, mint, grilled sage and a touch of oak-driven spice alongside bracing tannins and nervous acidity. Give it time to soften and fully develop. Drink 2019–2031.
Aromas and flavors of sandalwood and grenadine layer around this velvety, seductive wine. It offers black tea, truffle and forest floor, the body sinewy and complex. Savory in cinnamon and clove on the finish, it needs more time to open; decant or cellar through 2021.
A classic northern Rhône valley blend of Syrah with a touch of Viognier, this massive wine is made from grapes grown on granite soil, which leaves its mark in dense minerality and great power. It is a wine for lovers of the big stuff, concentrated and needing to age. Drink from 2018.
This is a rich, full-bodied wine that is ready to drink now. It still has a dry core of tannins, although they are overwhelmed by the rich, juicy black fruits and generous texture. It's a concentrated wine, high in alcohol, although that is really balanced by the fresh aftertaste.
Warm vanilla notes are laid across ripe nectarine, apple skin and a twist of lemon rind on this single-vineyard study by the Los Gatos-based winery. Pencil lead kicks off the palate, which then opens into poached apples and lemon oil, laid across a sizzling acidity that lasts long.
Lemony and light on entry, this tropically kissed, textured white develops body and weight over time, finding a balance and elegance that's hard to ignore. A touch of white peach wraps up the finish.
Often herbal and a bit green in nature, Silvaner is a much maligned grape. Yet at Thörle, it seems to blossom into something perfumed and quite fruity, redolent of peaches and fresh pears. Characteristic herb notes are fresh and nuanced, highlighted against brisk citrus and apple flavors and a silken supple mouthfeel.
Engaging aromas of red rose, iris, wild berry, cinnamon and a balsamic note waft out of the glass while juicy cherry, white pepper, anise and chopped mint drive the spicy, polished palate. Firm but refined tannins provide structure. Drink 2017–2021.
Caramelized white peach, salted lemon, pear skin, red apple and the hint of white flowers show on the nose of this wine by these longtime but under-the-radar producers. The palate blends orange skins and grapefruit pith with buttered toast, sea salt and a dill-like herb character.
A limited, popular entry in Winderlea's extensive single-vineyard lineup, this suggests cherry kirsch with streaks of coffee and tobacco. The pretty fruit leads into darker notes of tar and espresso. Still young and primary, the Juliard may be among the vintage's most long-lasting wines.
This is a very lively wine with a creamy mousse. The wine is towards dry, bringing out great white and citrus fruit flavors with a burst of tangy acidity. It comes from the village of Chouilly in the Côte des Blancs, which gives the wine a tight mineral texture at the end.
A Garrafeira wine is a special selection and this wine, which was aged for 30 months after bottling before being released, shows its quality quickly. Now reaching drinkability, its tannins have softened leaving rich full black currant and fresh acidity along with a more mature leathery character. Drink now and until 2020.
Principally Pinot Noir, the blend includes 25% Pinot Meunier and a splash of Chardonnay. It's a light and pretty salmon pink in hue, with hints of honeysuckle and moist earth in the nose. Flavors suggest tart raspberries and Bing cherries, with impressive minerality in the crisp, lingering finish.
Restrained aromas of black plum barely set the stage for flavors of dark plum, cherry-vanilla, mint eucalyptus and ground black pepper. Fruit flavors are soft, but the minty notes never overpower brightness and acidity. Tannins are just shy of opulent, and the finish is marked by a note of tart apple crispness.
Creamy on the nose, this wine shows seared pineapple, apple custard, lemon oil and faint iodine aromas. The flavors are evenly placed between lemon yogurt and salted apples, mixing a bit of tang and ripe fruit with a savory sea salt.
Lush aromatics conjure up dreams of strawberry cream. This is quite pretty, with perfect balance among its components of fruit, acid and tannin, set comfortably in a compact frame.
Enticing aromas of crushed rose, red berry, wild mint, menthol and a hint of oak come together. The linear, focused palate offers raw red cherry, strawberry, white pepper, licorice and chopped sage accompanied by tightly knit, close-grained tannins and bright acidity. Drink 2019–2026.
Ripe berry aromas blend nicely with earthy leathery scents. With a full and easy palate, this generous Crianza delivers blackberry and chocolate flavors that veer toward raisin and prune, especially on the finish, which is lightly toasted and dense in feel. Drink through 2019.
Cedar, cherry, black olive, wet earth, green olive and freshly plucked plum pop on the nose of this bottling. The palate shows lots of ripe black cherry down the middle, but is surrounded by a tangy green olive and an underripe-berry character, whose tartness enlivens the mouth.
One of the few in California to use this grape, winemaker Ryan Pease makes a great case for more in this bottling, which shows broad lemon curd, soft apple flesh and Anjou pear on the nose. There is ripe stone fruit on the tangy palate, but it's bone dry and grippy with chalky texture.
Much like its companion from the Revelation & Sorek Bloc, this offers well-endowed flavors of melon and white peach, along with a touch of citrus. There is a sense of higher acidity, along with lower listed alcohol, rather counter-intuitive as this is the reserve. Pick either one and you'll be pleased.
The Pinot-ness of this wine is undeniable: its structure is of velvet, and its aromas convey freshly turned earth, autumnal oak leaf and subdued red-cherry fruit. There is a depth that evokes deep forests. Have this with furred or feathered game.
This is a blend from most parts of the village, with fruit from 14 different parcels. It is solid and firm while also having great swathes of raspberries and red plums laced together with acidity. The aftertaste is perfumed with a fresh lift. Drink from 2018
This new sister label from Elk Cove offers 100% Willamette Valley Pinot Noir at an everyday price. Fresh cranberry and raspberry fruit is framed by herb-tinged tannins. The immaculate craftsmanship and clean direct flavors are light years beyond budget Pinot Noir from most other regions. This is your perfect salmon wine.
Red berry, rose and clove are some of the aromas you'll find on this bright, supple red. The smooth palate offers juicy black cherry, crushed strawberry and white pepper alongside fresh acidity. A mineral vein underscores the savory flavors and energizes the finish. It's made to be drunk young so enjoy soon. Drink through 2018.
Ruddy black plums and blackberries scent this lusciously ripe, rich Lemberger. It's irresistibly fruity, yet anchored by a savory edge of bramble and dried herb along with crisp cranberry acidity freshening the finish. Drink now through 2021.
Translucent, fresh aromatics, like green pears glimpsed through clear water, characterize this wine. There's also an herbal edge of fresh, green foliage on this slender and refreshing wine. The limpid purity is very convincing.
The slightest whiff of pepper on the nose leads to a spiced, leesy and slender palate on this unusual Alsace resident: it's Switzerland's Chasselas making an appearance. This is slender and while the nose is shy, the palate provides ample textures. Make as a local and have this with fresh white asparagus. The wine has a great acidic spine and luminous freshness.
The nose is like pear juice spilled onto warm earth, while the palate is more citrus-focused. A seam of almost tropical acidity links lemon to notes of pineapple, lifted by joyful freshness.
Fresh cut pear fruit flavors carry this wine. It's crisp and clean, with fresh fruit balanced against natural acidity. Drink it now while the freshness is paramount.
Planted with eight grapes, including the three Pinot “sisters”—Blanc, Gris and Noir—this site is located just below Archery Summit in the heart of the Dundee Hills. The pale, pretty rosé hue introduces this most elegant and restrained of the winery's vineyard selections. It's a velvety, finesse wine, with delicate flavors of rhubarb, cinnamon, cardamom and cocoa.
With some firm structure, this wine also has great fruitiness. It offers plenty of raspberry fruits, good acidity and a solid texture of tannins. The acidity keeps the wine perfumed and fresh. Drink the wine from 2019.
Enticing scents of spring flower, beeswax and orchard fruit come together in the glass. The elegant, linear palate shows juicy lemon, nectarine, hazelnut and a saline note framed in firm acidity. It closes crisp and clean.
Made with 60% Moscato di Alessandria and 40% Albanello, this earthy, intriguing white offers penetrating aromas of pressed wild flower, vineyard dust, orchard fruit and dried aromatic herb. The pervasive floral scent follows through to the mineral-driven palate along with dried peach, candied nectarine zest and chopped sage. Quality has improved immensely since the producer transferred to her spacious new cellars.
Not such a rarity these days, Albariño is turning heads in California and Oregon. This tart, juicy, and deliciously fresh effort is loaded with tangy citrus and green apple fruit. It's leesy and textural, tasting of wet stones: in sum, a wonderfully refreshing summer white.
Lightly scented, this opens with aromas of yellow stone fruit, citrus and a whiff of aromatic herb. The bright, medium-bodied palate offers creamy peach, mature green apple and a hint of nectarine while a mineral note fills in the juicy finish.
Apple, pear and stone-fruit flavors are vibrant and fresh from nose to finish of this delicately sweet Kabinett. It offers uncomplicated refreshment, but is anchored with taut acidity and honed, steely minerality. The finish is long and persistent.
A slightly herbal, minty character gives personality to this full-bodied, generous and richly textured wine. It is attractively dry, nicely tannic, layered with black cherry, wild berry and rosemary notes. Great to drink now through 2020 with rich meats or mushrooms.
An ambitious, concentrated, but not oaky wine, this has a very dark color, aromas of black cherries, and ripe but dry flavors of blackberries and dark chocolate. It is medium to full bodied, framed by lots of fine-grained tannins and finishing with more dark fruit. It's a good wine to lay down and drink after 2019.
Made at an attractive price point, this wine delivers value and plenty of flavor, from blackberry jam to oak and black pepper. It's sturdy and structured, ready for the table or larger gathering.
From a valley-floor site, this blend of 70% Zinfandel and 30% Cabernet Sauvignon delights in a depth of blackberry and cedar, reflecting well on both varieties. Firm tannin and restrained oak provide room for a touch of gun smoke and pencil lead, with a lengthy finish.
Aromas of plum, wild herbs and tobacco are mature and suggest that this is ready to drink. In the mouth, this is medium-bodied, with clarity and a sense of freshness. Plum, berry and cherry flavors finish in harmony. Drink through 2020.
Quite rare in the U.S. market, this ripe richly berried wine is an excellent example of Frühburgunder, an early ripening mutation of Pinot Noir. Blackberry and plum flavors are fleshy and rich, offset by soft, sunny acidity and a supple silken mouthfeel. It's just faintly tannic and approachable now.
Aromas of mulled black fruits, vanilla, tobacco, orange peel and earth are a touch jumbled, but compartmentalized—this smells nice. Wiry and fresh in feel, but with a slightly hollow midsection, this tastes peppery, oaky and like cherry and black plum. A toasty finish with snappy acidity solidifies this medium-weight La Mancha Tempranillo. Drink through 2019.
From several vineyard sites and combining all five red Bordeaux varieties, this wine is fermented in stainless steel before it rests over two years in both French and American oak. Powerful, it retains an elegance amid a tannic, grippy entry of toasted oak and black cherry, and a rich textured finish accented in cinnamon and chocolate.
Grippy leather and tobacco provide a gravelly texture and burly nature to this medium-bodied wine, which finds its groove in the glass. Concentrated and dense, it offers smoother elements of black currant, cassis and leather on the finish.
A deep color and oodles of blackberry and boysenberry flavors lend a lot of impact to this full-bodied, ripe and almost jammy-tasting wine. It is generous, layered and concentrated but not overly serious in terms of tannins. Call it big but friendly.
Seductive, spicy oak in the aromas and flavors puts a great spin on this medium-bodied, velvety smooth wine from a promising new winery in Northern California. Some ripe black-cherry and cranberry flavors chime in as well, supporting the toasted baguette, cedar and nutmeg nuances and layering seamlessly.
This is the Hearst family's run at a luxury-level Chardonnay, and it's a promising start, with creamy aromas of honeysuckle, light butter and citrus rinds. There's a touch of vanilla bean on the palate, which also shows apple ice cream, flashes of cinnamon and a firmly wound texture. It's delicate, clean, light and quaffable.
Juicy blackberry and blackcurrant mix with cocoa, cola and peppercorns on the nose of this densely layered wine. Flavors are deep and dark with tar, pencil shavings, dried blueberry, street asphalt and a strong umami character, still tightly wound at five years old. Let it breathe, or wait another couple years for optimal drinking.
Tilled earth, ripe dark-skinned berry, leather and menthol aromas show this wine's Sangiovese pedigree. The robust, concentrated palate doles out crushed black cherry, raspberry jam, cinnamon, licorice and the warmth of evident alcohol—the latter a common characteristic of this hot vintage. Firm, ripe tannins provide the framework. Drink 2017–2021.
Aromas of fresh dill and other green herbs leap up from the glass. The plum flavors are pure and persistent. It's a unique expression of the variety.
This Bordeaux-style blend is comprised of 44% Cabernet Sauvignon, 43% Merlot and 13% Cabernet Franc. The fruit flavors of raspberry and blackberry are light and tangy, the tannins mellow. A note of dark chocolate highlights the finish.
Apple, lime and mineral aromas lend freshness to a mature nose. This feels round and plump, but well balanced due to fine acidity. Peach and citrus flavors are stony and finish with tropical notes of lychee and mango. Drink now.
This is a finely perfumed wine, rich in both structure and ripe fruits. It is smoothly textured, a full-bodied wine that has dark cherry flavors as well as a balanced layer of acidity. The wine is still young, juicy and will develop further, so drink from 2017.
Aromas of underbrush, charred earth, truffle, star anise and a hint of menthol come together in the glass. The ripe palate shows dried black cherry, blackberry jam, licorice and mocha alongside solid, assertive tannins. Drink 2019–2025.
Aromas of espresso, underbrush, leather, dark spice, mature black-skinned fruit and a suggestion of oak lead the way. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, mocha, vanilla and star anise alongside fine-grained tannins that leave a dusty finish.
Aromas of lemon custard and pineapple are well-balanced in this blend of 50% Chardonnay, 45% Pinot Gris and 5% Pinot Blanc and the desert-them doesn't stop, as this white offers the palate a medley of crème brûlée, vanilla bean and lemon meringue pie.
The aromas that come together are those of scorched earth, grilled porcini, roasted coffee bean and a bit of burnt rubber. The mature palate offers dried cherry, blackberry confiture, mocha, vanilla and a hint of game alongside tongue-drying tannins that clench the finish. Give this a few years to unfold then drink sooner rather than later.
Grilled herb, forest floor, scorched earth, cured meat and menthol aromas lead the way. The ripe palate offers juicy wild cherry, fleshy black raspberry, cinnamon, pipe tobacco and a confectionary note alongside firm, enveloping tannins. It's already accessible and will make fine near- to mid-term drinking.
Engaging scents suggesting rose, iris, perfumed berry and Mediterranean herb meld together in the glass. The soft, bright palate offers red cherry, raspberry, a hint of tobacco and a coffee note alongside supple tannins.
The nose on this creative blend of 52% Gewürztraminer, 25% Sauvignon Blanc and 23% Chenin Blanc is quite showy with peach, baked orange, apple blossom and honeysuckle notes. But the real star is the palate that is racy with sizzling energy and flavors of cut grass, lemongrass and sour-apple peels.
Sourced from 50+ year-old vines in the commune of Sorgues, this aromatic blend of 60% Grenache, 20% Syrah and 20% Mourvèdre boasts hints of rosemary, bay leaf and clove. It's reasonably full bodied, with a long, drying finish that demands another year or two in the cellar or (preferably) some rare beef or lamb.
This Costco brand has become a reliable source for bargain Châteauneuf-du-Pape. This vintage is a bit firmer and more tannic than others, but it still weaves together cherry and leather notes into a pleasing whole. It might need a year or two to soften, but it should provide good drinking through 2025.
Malbec, Merlot and Petit Verdot are included in this wine that's black-purple in color, with a thick density to its dusty black fruit. Cedar, tar and tobacco weave in between blackberry and currant, finishing in a powerful grip of tannin.
A minuscule amount of this wine was made, all of it fermented entirely in stainless steel. The result is lively in mouthcoating acidity and refreshing swirls of light-bodied mandarin orange and lime.
Grapes are sourced from both Stagecoach and Hyde vineyards in this wine that takes its time in the glass coming around. Funky brine and a tropical flourish open on the nose with a severity of oak that mellows slowly. Made in an opulent, full-bodied style, it'll pair well with buttery fare.
Tropical guava and mango surround a restrained cradling of French oak, only 15% of it new, in this easy-to-like, approachable wine. Wrappings of vanilla and honeysuckle complete the picture, with a straightforward, relatively lengthy finish.
The first thing that leaps at you on this oddball blend of Albillo, Sauvignon Blanc and Viognier is toasty oak, which overrides spice and apple aromas. In the mouth, this is full, resiny and grabby. Oak-driven flavors of vanilla, lees, peach and white pepper finish long, with elegance and a woody aftertaste.
This well-balanced wine has scents of finely ground black pepper, dried cherry, black plum and violets with flavors of plum, blackberry and tart cherry. The tannins are smooth and the finish is persistent.
Aromas of wild berry, thyme and a whiff of cellar floor lead the nose on this structured red while the full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, white pepper, sage and anise. Tightly wound tannins provide framework. Give it a few years to unfurl then drink up.
Caramelized oak makes a statement in this wine that starts out richly and roundly, but finds a sense of balanced acidity in the glass. Medium bodied, it features classic notes of Meyer lemon and Gravenstein apple.
This straightforward wine shows an exuberance of toasted oak and grip at first before relaxing into its more mannered self, a twist of cedar and sage giving it a classic sensibility. Cassis and black cherry take on more power on the full-bodied palate, exhibiting the soft approachability of the appellation.
Given about a year in French oak, less than half of it new, this is a cohesive blend of 53% Grenache, 29% Mourvèdre, 12% Syrah and 6% Counoise. It's brawny in meat and leather, blackberry and tar, with a velvety mouthfeel benefiting from integrated oak.
This flavorful and beautifully contoured wine is simply delicious. It has a lightly spicy aroma, plenty of fresh red-cherry and plum flavors, moderate acidity and tannins, and medium body.
Round and ripe, this opens with aromas that recall baked plum, vanilla, anise and a whiff of leather. The approachable, juicy palate doles out mature black cherry, blackberry, mocha, dried sage, baking spice and licorice. Polished, fine-grained tannins provide support.
Forest floor, black plum, menthol and a whiff of exotic spice unfold on this elegantly structured wine. The precise palate offers mature black cherry, ground pepper, licorice and hint of chewing tobacco framed in firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2019.
Scorched earth, underbrush, blue flower and woodland berry are some of the scents you'll find on this focused wine. The elegant, full-bodied palate delivers black raspberry, mature cherry, brown kitchen spice and a hint of leather alongside tightly wound but refined tannins. Drink 2016–2021.
Though just four years old, this wine seems advanced with notes of dried cherry, vanilla, dried tobacco and blackberry. The dried cranberry and cherry flavors are rich and tart, backed by quite astringent tannins.
Lighter in color than many other bottlings, this shows cherry and pepper spice on a somewhat reserved nose. But that light color unleashes a lush and ripe palate, with red berries, nutmeg and game flavors showing most prominently.
Tawny in color and wafting of potpourri and fallen leaves, this raspberry-inflected wine is already starting to show its maturity. Briskly concentrated and light on its feet, it makes an elegant sip to enjoy now before it loses its delicate, perfumed charms.
The aromas on this wine are quite light, conveying wood, herbs and red fruit. This contrasts with the sweet, rich fruit flavors with a gentle grip of tannins.
A mix of smoke and toast blends with fresh, crisp citrus aromas on the nose. That's followed by a foamy, reactive palate with flavors of pink grapefruit, orange, pepper and caramel. This remains foamy on the finish, which is peppery and slightly bitter in flavor.
Raspberry, red currant and a pinch of oaky maple make up the nose on this Tinto Fino that sports a medium-weight body with medium-level intensity. Red-berry flavors follow the nose, while a crisp finish with red plum and raspberry flavors wraps things up.
A first release, this wine offers light suggestions of red apple, herbs and tropical fruit. It's medium bodied yet leaner in style with tart acids but the concentration doesn't seem all there.
This wood-aged wine conveys mint aromas and new-wood flavors. It is rich, full in the mouth and developing quickly. The black currant fruitiness is fresh, giving a delicious, juicy wine to drink from 2016.
This presents a big, buttery, bold style, with no apologies for the full body and ripe fruit surrounded by toasty, oaky aromas and flavors. This is dry, rich in texture, and more savory or smoky rather than fruity.
Heavy aromas and flavors of oak and smoke accompany ripe black cherry and boysenberry for a rich mixture. This wine is deeply colored, full bodied and pumped up with the flavors of heavily toasted oak. A firm but not harsh texture accompanies the almost sweet taste of all that oak.
This wine offers notes of Red Hots, coffee, vanilla and herbs. Cherry and blackberry flavors are sweet and viscous in feel backed by dry tannins.
This blend of Marsanne (32%), Grenache Blanc (27%), Roussanne (24%), Picpoul (14%) and Viognier starts out reduced before opening to offer pear, peach, mineral and almond. It's medium bodied in feel.
Earthy aromas include new leather, scorched soil, wild berry and a touch of funky game. On the robust palate, grilled sage, tobacco and licorice add depth to a core of fleshy wild cherry along a backbone of raspy tannins and searing alcohol. Drink after 2018.
This features aromas of oak, wood shop, vanilla and toast. The densely colored, dark palate offers prune, roasted coffee bean, anise and oak alongside assertive, extremely astringent tannins that leave the mouth feeling dried out.
Strongly aromatic, this wood-aged wine is perfumed with both toast and smokiness. The palate has fruit, but the acidity both from that fruit and the wood dominates, suggesting the wine needs to age. Drink from 2016.
The nose on this wine from American Idol producers Nigel Lythgoe and Ken Warwick is a bit reluctant to show itself at first, then lets go of rounded red and purple fruits, with freshly turned soil and dust. Ripe black cherries and tart plum skins mix on the earthy palate, and the tannins will unfurl with more time.
This well-made, stainless-steel-fermented and aged Chardonnay offers notes of red apple and spice. It's straightforward and provides pleasant, easy drinking.
This Riesling, Muscat and Viognier blend marries the best of each and provides a lot of value. Aromas suggest apricot, white flowers, orange peel and freshly baked biscuits. It drinks full bodied and dry, but with sweet fruit flavors that linger on the finish.
Here's a bright, crisp white that delivers aromas of apricot, nectarine, white peach and a whiff of Mediterranean brush that all carry over to the palate. Mineral notes add energy to the juicy fruit flavors, while zesty acidity generates a clean, refreshing finish.
Initial aromas of aged cheese, gym shoes and overall funk are more complicated than easy. This is lacks a center point on the palate, while flavors of briny stone fruits are drawn, buttery and oxidized. A briny apricot note rises up on the finish.
A blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Merlot, this wine features earthy aromas of leafy forest floor, tilled soil and dried black currant. The straightforward palate delivers juicy blackberry, raspberry and clove alongside smooth tannins. Drink through 2016.
All coming from Block 17 of Skyline Vineyard, this is aromatic with lime, mineral and stone fruit. It drinks just off dry (7g/L residual sugar), with a phenolic, almost creamy feel.
Wiry aromas of berry and spice are tempered by a touch of oaky vanilla. On the palate, there's a blend of creamy oak and sharp acidity, while flavors of plum and boysenberry are tart overall but again softened by barrel-driven vanilla notes. Snappy acidity makes for a moderately sharp, pointed finish.
Smooth, nutty aromas include vanilla and flor scents. This has a dry palate with flavors of orange, lemon, salt and peanuts. It's crisp but metallic in feel, with angular acidity and a finish that's salty in flavor and slightly oily in texture.
Crisp, minty, herbal aromas of berry and plum lead to a bright, rumbling, tannic palate with energy. Blackberry and chocolate flavors are good and earthy, while the finish is plump but braced by lively acidity. This is well made and satisfying for a basic roble wine.
The oak notes of dried coconut, coffee bean and vanilla are far out front here and provide a good deal of the aromas and flavors. But some pretty things are going on in the bottle; it's just hard to get at them.
Berry and cherry aromas are fruity and clean. This blend of Carignan, Grenache and Syrah is big on the palate but also tannic, acidic and fierce. Black plum, blackberry and tomato flavors finish crisp and firm.
This concentrated wine offers warm-climate aromas of stewed plum and scorched earth. The dense palate offers prune, baked black cherry, nutmeg and clove alongside velvety tannins. It's already accessible so drink soon to capture the remaining fruit flavors.
Aromas of cured meat, stewed fruit and toasted oak lead the nose. On the ripe palate, notes of powdered sage, vanilla and oak spices accent fleshy black plum. Bracing tannins provide the framework, but drink soon to capture the fruit richness.
Aromas suggest oak, vanilla, plum, espresso and coconut. The tightly wound palate isn't very expressive but offers dried black fruit, roasted coffee bean and clove alongside raspy tannins, with the heat of alcohol on the close.
Young Touriga Nacional vines produced this crisp, refreshing wine. With red currant flavor and a light touch of caramel, it's both fruity and full in the mouth. Drink now.
Made with no added sulfites, this has aromas suggesting resin and balsamic notes. The palate is almost overripe and rather evolved, offering dried apricot and crystallized ginger while a note of candied nectarine zest marks the close.
From an estate vineyard, this wine is robust, full-bodied and viscous, with an underlying hint of petrol and plenty of oak. There's a tartness behind its flavors that gives it a lift as it finds its way to the finish.
There's a touch of barnyard on the nose of this bottling, which also shows a soy and sweet black cherry scents. The palate is marked by beef char and cooked black fruit flavors, with a twist of funkiness, lending intrigue.
This wine is full of red berry flavor and soft tannins. With its forward fruit and smooth texture, it's made to be drunk young, so drink now.
Although this San Juan SB offers almost nothing on the nose, it's fresh and popping with acidity on the palate. Flavors of briny citrus are entirely familiar, while this finishes with cleansing crispness.
Rose petal aromas and lychee flavors make this a colorful and lively wine to sniff and sip. The powerful floral and fruity character rests in a soft, sweet texture that carries into a lingering finish.
This wine is produced from two of the quintas owned by Ramos-Pinto. It's fruity and crisp, packed with bright fruit and lively acidity, and finishes on tangy citrus with a riper, creamy texture. Drink from late 2017.
This wine is a pale cherry-red in color, showing some bricking. It brings off-dry elegantly styled cherry flavors that winnow toward the finish.
Dried cranberry and currant flavors with raisin-plum cake undertones define this light-bodied wine that's mildly tannic, tart, simple and easy to like.
This boxed Malbec is burgundy-colored and opens with spicy reedy aromas of dried herbs and red-berry fruits. On the palate, this is tight but shallow in the midtier. Flavors of baked plum and berry fruits come with a note of cocoa powder prior to a stable finish.
Muted, soft scents of green apple, orange peel and underripe banana dance on the nose, while the zippy, prickly palate offers pithy flavors of citrus zest, ending slightly bitter. Drink now.
This 100% varietal wine is aged in American oak, offering an approachable, rounded, full-bodied impression of pencil shavings, cherry, leather and tobacco bound by firm tannins.
Concentrated orange blossom, bubblegum and a touch of minerality show on the nose of this bottling, suggesting sweetness. The palate is dry, if a tad syrupy, revealing warm climate flavors like poached apple, pear and lemon curd, tasting a bit like cough syrup.
Aromas of green wood, herb and cherry lead to ripe but chalky feeling fruit flavors. There's some interesting things going on but a sense of astringency and bitterness proves distracting.
A substantial dose of fruit and good, grippy texture make this hearty wine ready for any protein dishes. It has full body, tasty black cherry and plum flavors and moderate tannins that lend structure.
A blend of Colombard and Chardonnay, this wine is crisp and fruity. It has attractive bright acidity with lemon fruitiness and a mineral texture. The wine is ready to drink.
Jammy blueberry aromas come with overt oakiness. This feels dense but on the flat side. Baked berry flavors and herbal plum notes sprinkle in a mild sweet and green accent, while this feels full and a bit syrupy on the finish.
This bottling is ripe and tropical but approachable on the nose, with honeydew melon, banana and nectarine aromas. There is a decent punch of acidity and noticeable texture upon first sip, veering toward sweet apple and bubblegum flavors on the finish.
A mild nose with little extravagance offers modest lemon aromas. The palate on this light-bodied white holds onto that lemony character via pithy, somewhat yeasty citrus flavors. The short non-effusive finish is tangy.
Squeezed lime, wet concrete and green apple rind scents show on the nose of this basic bottling. Kaffir lime tang meets with ripe red apple and pear notes on the palate, framed by a stony texture.
This is a young, fruity wine made for early drinking. With bright acidity, soft tannins and forward red fruit, it's easy-drinking and ready now.
Smoke, brawny black pepper and black cherry flavors meet on the palate of this intensely ripe wine. It's grippy and high-octane in power, with a layering of mocha dust.
Tasting strongly of spicy wood, this wine is firm, with a tight, granitic texture. Tannins and acidity anchor its blackberry fruit, yielding a structured wine that is ready to drink.
This straightforward, affordable dry wine is good and fruity, with medium body, moderate tannins and plenty of red cherry and blackberry flavors.
The nose of this blend of 58% Syrah, 17% Cabernet Franc, 9% Merlot, 8% Malbec and 8% Petite Sirah is a touch funky, with sour blackberry, charcoal and dried meat aromas. Charred blueberry, sour black plum and savory meat flavors show on the palate.
This is a grassy, herbal wine with attractive acidity and the crispest hint of apricots and some distinctive spice. It is fruity, ready to drink now.
This dull, rustic wine offers earth and anise flavors around a core of soft cherry fruit. Light bodied, its acidity is moderate and unobtrusive.
This wine comes from the northern reaches of Tejo, giving it a structured, cool and bright, fruity character. Juicy acidity cuts through its tannins and black plum flavor. Needing a few more months of bottle age, it will be ready to drink in 2018.
This is a fashionably pale rosé, as light and bright in color as it is on the palate. Fruity, attractive and ready to drink, it has zesty orange peel and crisp wild strawberry flavors.
Made from what Californians call the Pommard clone, this has a light, traditional garnet color. Fresh and lively fruit aromas resemble cranberries and red cherries, followed by tangy fruit and cinnamon flavors of medium intensity, supported by firm acidity and moderate tannins.
Aromas of leather, cherry and plum lead this balanced red from Boutari. Ripe cherry, cedar and cinnamon flavors carry the palate, with soft tannins giving a sultry feel.
This blend of 70% Grenache and 30% Syrah offers remarkable value. Thyme- and bay-scented black cherry aromas fill the glass, while the flavors add an intriguing hint of raspberry. It's not overly weighty or tannic, making it ideal for drinking any season.
This Sangiovese opens with aromas of blue flowers, underbrush, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of roasted coffee beans, all of which carry over to the concentrated palate along with black pepper and clove. The tannins are still tightly wound but drink sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit richness.
This blend of local Duras and Braucol with the more Mediterranean Syrah is attractively spicy and juicy. It is packed with red fruits, sweet berry flavors and ripe tannins. The wine is maturing well and will be ready to drink from 2016.
This is a sweet, honeyed wine, rich with apricot fruit flavors and fresh with balancing acidity. It's fruity, mineral and generous, a great wine for fruit desserts.
Pressed apple and pears seem to be dusted in pollen and saffron on the nose of this savory, spicy Riesling. It's off dry and delicate in style, but concentrated in lip smacking tangerine and lime flavors. Dusty, earthy tones persist through the moderately long finish.
This Alpine sparkler opens with aromas that recall honeysuckle, lily of the valley and candied citrus. The firm palate delivers ripe yellow apple, nectarine zest, candied ginger and toasted walnut accompanied by crisp acidity.
This is full bodied and forward, bringing a generous mouthful of apple, pear and pineapple fruit along with a streak of vanilla wafer. The flavors hit quickly and right up front, then suspend themselves through a lingering finish.
Bloody meats, dried cherries, pressed purple flowers, vanilla and blackberry jam arise on the nose of this blend of 60% Cabernet Sauvignon, 33% Cabernet Franc and 7% Merlot, which shows a little age. The purple flowers really come through once sipped, backed up by sour cherries, mocha and sanguine elements, cast across grippy tannins.
Made with Cabernet Sauvignon, this opens with aromas of toast, coffee, black currants and a whiff of cedar. The palate delivers dried black cherries, espresso, grilled sage and a leathery note alongside assertive, astringent tannins.
La Guillotte is a parcel on the Bouissel estate, planted with old Négrette. This firm and structured wine is solid with black plum fruits and cherry acidity. It is still developing and will need some time to soften its tannins. Drink from 2017.
The estate reserve gets more new and once-filled oak, and is a selection from vines whose yield has been dropped to 1.5 tons/acre. It's forward and flavorful, with black cherry, coffee and anise components. The entry is smooth and continues so, on through a finish complete with sandalwood and butterscotch.
This firm, well-crafted wine reflects the lightness of the vintage. Raspberry, citrus and stone components come across in a balanced effort that should continue to drink well until 2020.
Warm berry-rhubarb pie notes mix with black pepper and an appealing, shy layer of green bell pepper on this blend of 50% Merlot, 28% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Cabernet Franc and 2% Petit Verdot from three vineyards. Stewed plums, cherries and strawberries dominate the tasty palate, with a proper acidity and woody bitterness as balance.
A palate of exotic perfumes with layers of dark chocolate and dense tannins certainly give this wine great power. It is dark and brooding—almost too much in the intensity of its flavors and structure. It's going to remain a big beast as it ages. Drink from 2017.
Boysenberry, dried violets and black pepper show on the nose of this wine from a popular vineyard in the Alisos Canyon area near Los Alamos. The mouthfeel is lively, fresh and driven by a generous acidity, yet the flavors remain rich with purple fruits, licorice and black tobacco.
This blend of 80% Cabernet Sauvignon and 20% Sangiovese opens with aromas of crushed blackberry, ripe plum and blue flowers. On the palate, notes of anise and black pepper accent the core of fleshy black cherry while assertive but polished tannins provide the framework. Drink through 2016–2019.
This brooding wine opens with aromas of mature blue and black fruit, allspice, charred earth and whiff of game. The palate delivers spiced blueberry, blackberry, ground pepper, licorice and tobacco alongside assertive tannins.
Earthy berry and licorice aromas are composed, lightly oaked and attractive. This standard Priorato blend of Grenache, Carignan and Syrah is fresh feeling, with a bolt of bracing acidity. Juicy plum and raspberry flavors finish loamy, earthy and balanced. For a wine that's no heavyweight, this is strong throughout. Drink through 2018.
This widely available wine delivers aromas of cherries, leather and Provençal herbs upfront, followed by a silky texture on the palate and hints of cocoa. Drink it over the next few years.
Dried strawberries, wild berries, cloves cinnamon and cocoa powder power the nose on this bottling from a vineyard named after a famous composer who once owned the property. There's not much fruit on the palate, just a touch of dried black cherries, but plenty of dried herbs, milk and dark chocolate and mocha-cappuccino flavors. It's a touch hot.
Blackberry, cassis, herb and spice aromas are complete and ripe. This Cabernet-led blend is focused and direct on the palate, with berry, cassis, chocolate and oaky flavors. A similar tasting finish, with additional chocolate and creamy oak is weighty and pleasing.
Pure Syrah, this is young, spicy and crisp, with blue plum, red licorice and a streak of dark chocolate. It has a light suggestion of the gamy, cured meat character that typifies Syrah. This marks a good start for such young (second leaf) vines.
Remarkably strong cinnamon characterizes the nose of this old-vine wine, which also shows red and black cherries, potpourri and gingerbread on the nose. Black raspberries, cranberry-pomegranate juice, dark chocolate, purple flowers, black pepper and cardamom entertain the palate, which also offers decent acidity and grip, but finishes quickly.
Fruit from the Momtazi vineyard often has a strong herbal component, here matched to a tart cranberry base. This wine is young, tight, and slightly bitter in the finish, with a hint of pineapple in the acidity. Overall the winemaker's elegant hand lightens up the aggressive herbaceousness, but a bit more fruit would be welcome.
Look for the blue bottle and you'll get a solid Albariño. This is typically light and fresh, with aromas of stream water, wild flowers, fresh herbs and leesy stone fruits. Crisp and citric on the palate, with proper cut, this tastes of orange, peach, nectarine and lemon. Minerally, cleansing and steady on the finish.
This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc and Merlot opens with aromas of bluish-black fruit, toasted oak, espresso and licorice. The palate delivers blackberry extract, anise, clove and tobacco while dusty tannins provide support.
Briary, dry, lightly oaked aromas of plum and berry lead to a bright, forward, juicy palate with fresh acidity and racy flavors of cherry and plum. This is short but clean on the finish, and overall it's the type of simple, drinkable, affordable Ribera del Duero that fans of the region don't come across often enough.
Mineral, citrus and dusty aromas are textbook for brut Cava. A round, full palate shows good grip and acidity, while flavors of lemon-lime and nectarine finish with notes of lime and green banana. Nothing about this is overwhelming, but the sum of its parts add up.
This is an excellent Chardonnay for an accessible price. It's balanced and textured, with bites of apple and anise highlighting the journey. Power and finesse are offered in equal measure. A delicious wine for the table, it will impress with its depth and complexity.
A parcel of old vines in the Brandluft vineyard gives the typical concentration and intense minerality to be expected from low yields. The wine is perfumed, with a bone-dry texture and melon and orange fruitiness. It needs to age, so drink from 2017.
Rui Madeira's flagship red is a formidable, powerful wine. It has intense tannins that are surrounded by dark fruits and rich, juicy acidity. The core is dry, concentrated and dense, and the wood aging shows against the background of ripe fruits, promising good aging potential. Drink from 2018.
Spicy in black plum and berry fruit, Black Chicken is a consistent blockbuster for Biale, alive and fresh in waves of exotic cinnamon and clove. Built to age 2020–2022, it'll satisfy in complex black tea and savory toasty oak, an easy wine to love. The grapes are sourced from the winery's estate sites within the Oak Knoll District, where it's based.
Muted black plum teases from the nose of this wine, a blend of 73% Cabernet Sauvignon, 16% Merlot, 8% Cabernet Franc and 3% Petit Verdot. Amidst a wall of dusty tannins still needing time to soften, you'll find clove, blackberry and a treasure trove of chocolate and vanilla.
From a single-vineyard, estate-grown and bottled, this is an intense 100% Cabernet, generous in roasted plum, cedar and coffee. With supple tannins it's easy to enjoy, concentrated and dark, a good match for roasted meats and savory pies.
Black Eyed Peas singer Fergie and Winemaker Joey Tensley converge on a blend of Syrah, Merlot, Grenache and Cabernet Sauvignon that's worth sitting on until at least 2019. Woody, cigar box aromas pick up notes of camphor and flashes of red fruit, and the flavors fall in line around the cedar, with blueberry, black cherry and milk chocolate.
Coming from vines ranging in age from 9–39 years, this is an aromatically complex wine, with notes of wet slate, orange peel and herb. It drinks off dry, with tart, mouthwatering acidity accenting the abundant stone fruit flavors—a thriller of a wine.
Working from an urban winery on Santa Barbara's Eastside, Matthias Pippig created the Loner Chardonnay series. This entry begins with scents of cider, nectarine and lemon-lime soda before delving into a palate laden with yellow fruits and flowers. Sourdough yeastiness surrounds a lingering line of grapefruit zest-led acidity.
A solid, firm wine with a great rapport between the black berry fruits, juicy acidity and dark tannins. It has a fresh element along with a powerful structure and dense mineral texture. It will age well, so drink from 2017.
With voluptuous confectionary-like aromas surrounded by a rich toasty character, this wine from the wonderful Hyde Vineyard offers lemon and crisp yellow apple around a core of brilliant minerality. Vanilla and crème brûlée interplay on the palate, the body of the wine firm and round.
This is a rich, full-bodied and wood-aged wine, produced from vines in the village of Panasqueira. It has herbal and mint flavors, with black fruit tones powered by structured tannins. It is impressive, ripe, and still maturing. Best after 2016.
Big points for subtlety, length and elegance here—this is not a wine that will blow you away at first sniff. Stay with it and it stays with you; opening sharp-edged, pungent and slightly grassy, then developing a tightly focused midpalate with pure lime and apple fruit flavors. Accents of mustard greens and white pepper come in as a long, delicate yet detailed finish slowly unfolds.
Scents of effervescent cherry and mint run with emergent licorice and slate on this wine that proves lithe yet flavorful on the palate. Lovely blackberry flavors and black pepper make for a very balanced bottling that doesn't rely on bombastic power to tell the Syrah story.
This single-vineyard wine shows both the warmth of the vintage and the coolness of this site, boasting depth and richness to the fruit flavors while retaining good acidity. It combines notes of apple, peach and lees with light barrel accents—20% new French—and a creamy feel. Enjoy with shrimp stir fried in olive oil for a pairing nirvana.
This is rich and full-bodied, a splendid wine with its ripe yellow fruits, intensely aromatic character and a pinch of pepper. Concentrated, it finishes with a light touch of toastiness that hints at the maturity to come. Drink from 2016.
Part of the impressive series of Jubilée wines that are aged before release, this Hugel Riesling is just getting to maturity with its soft aromatic character, touch of toastiness, and refreshing herbal flavors. It's now ready to drink, although it will be even better from 2016.
This begins with scents of dried orange rinds and mango laced with honey as well as deeper aromas of rocks and savory herbs. A tight lemon acidity runs down the middle of the palate, with yellow flowers, yeast and toasted pine nuts on the side. It's both racy and rounded, and is showing a touch of age.
Honeysuckle and jasmine pique interest aromatically before luscious, linear waves of vanilla, caramel and lemon custard graciously interject, buoyed by ample acidity and a lush texture. This Chardonnay offers generous richness alongside high-toned minerality, and is a delicious go-to for buttery lobster dishes.
This wine is straw in color, with delightful notes of lemon curds and apricot blossoms. On the palate, freshly picked apricot and Anjou pear provide the core to a slightly spiced backdrop, finishing crisp and clean. Pair this wine with your favorite spicy Asian dish.
An appealing fragrance of red rose and violet mingled with a whiff of baking spices drifts out of the glass. The juicy palate offers crushed Morello cherry, vanilla, licorice and cinnamon alongside firm but fine tannins. It's a balanced, classic Barbaresco.
Abundant flavors combine with a plush texture to make a wine that slowly builds interest from the first sniff to the lingering aftertaste. Hints of vanilla and honeysuckle enhance the vivid apricot flavors, lasting long on the viscous palate and through the finish.
Red berry, blue lilac, baking spice and Mediterranean herb lead the nose. On the palate, notes of white pepper, sage and tobacco back up the bright red cherry flavors. It's still young, with aggressive tannins and bright acidity. Drink after 2018.
This special selection, tight-cropped from 30 acres of 100% Merlot, is ripe and rich. This is a smoky and fruity wine, in barrel for 14 months. It has ripe black fruits and rich, dense structure. Spice and toast balance the fruit, giving an impressive sense of generosity. Drink from 2017.
From a small parcel of land on the slopes of the Serra de Aire hills, this firm textured, cool-climate wine shows structure and depth. The fruit weight is concentrated with plum and juicy black currant flavors, rotating around a dry core of tannins. Age this complex wine and drink after 2015.
The wine is pure minerality, tightly woven into a tense structure and fruits that are still very young. It's complex, allying fruit with a texture that is steely and only developing slowly. It will be impressive as it ages. Drink from 2018.
The aromas of this Chardonnay are zesty and fresh yet rich, with barrel smoke, caramelized pear and vanilla tones. The integration continues on the palate, with a bit of oak followed by apple, white peach, nectarine and lime zest. It's flavorful and enjoyable now.
Deep, pure cassis and red berry aromas are integrated and thorough. This Bordeaux-style blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc and Merlot is racy, tight and hard-driving, with bold berry, pepper, baking spice and chocolate flavors. A toasty, peppery finish is juicy, forward and long. Drink through 2020.
Winemaker Mark McNeilly from Mark Ryan Winery makes this estate grown Viognier, and works it in the same strong, substantial, concentrated style as his own release. The mix of concrete and neutral oak fermentation brings out some nice floral highlights and a light hint of toast. The length and flavor development through the long finish are exceptional.
Unctuous and ripe in caramel and toasty aromas, this is deep golden in color but completely crisp and balanced in the glass. The nose is so overwhelming that the flavors take time to show. Once they do, it's a celebration of green apple and melon enveloped in complex minerality and a supple body.
This is a classic version of the varietal, matching complex herb and cherry aromas with fresh, frank fruit flavors that also show hints of mint, clove and anise. It is all about vibrancy and balance, not full body, and has a welcome, appetizing personality.
An interesting vein of tasty herb flavor runs through this full-bodied, plump and fruity wine. The aroma has hints of dill and sage, and these mingle with black cherry and blueberry on the palate. A sleek texture and long finish complete the picture.
Kirsten's Feinherb, or gently sweet bottling, maintains a firm foundation of stoniness, but also embraces softer, less angular dimensions of spring blossom and peach. High-toned acidity brighten and lifts the palate through a long finish. Drink now through 2021.
Situated close to the northern edge of Beaune vineyards, this premier cru has something of the soft ripeness of Savigny-lès-Beaune next door. The wine is ripe, with tannins that are present although certainly not dominant. It has the potential to revel in its red fruits and generous texture. Drink this wine from 2019.
This structured wine still has wood aromas although on the palate the rich, dark fruits dominate. The tannins both from wood and from the fruit are firm and still young, showing the possibility of long-term aging. This complex wine should not be drunk before 2019.
Quite a steal of a deal for a widely available wine, this shows cinnamon, red cherry, ripe cranberry, light tobacco and a touch of leather on the rustic nose. Once sipped, the mouthfeel is soft, offering flavors of cranberry and red cherry that are spiced by thyme, bay leaf and more cinnamon.
Hazelnut and truffle compete for affection in this juicy, rounded, lovable wine, a full-bodied and structured example from the appellation, known for its at-times generous portrait of tannin and wound-up concentration.
Luscious white peach and apricot flavors are anchored by a steely core of mineral in this easy-drinking but elegant wine. Light bodied but persistent, it's a lip-smacking, sweet wine that finishes with a touch of brambly herbaceousness. Drink now through 2020.
Aromas like wild berries and sage lead to moderate cherry and raspberry flavors in this medium-bodied wine. With each sip the fruit flavor seems to deepen and the finish seems to lengthen because of the wine's strong concentration and lively texture with just the right amount of tannin.
This offers heady aromas of honeysuckle, white stone fruit, dill, hay and a vegetal note that recalls tomato leaf. The tangy palate offers juicy grapefruit, white peach and honeydew melon while mouthwatering salinity provides depth.
Aromas of this wine show considerable wood. On the palate, the wood is very present, giving acidity as well as layers of toast and spice. Hints of yellow fruit show through, suggesting the possibility of a ripe, rich wine in the future. Drink from 2019.
A soft, stony scent of pebble and the faintest melon signals a fresh, clean wine. The palate plays these aromas out softly but also with precision. That stoniness lingers on the dry, gentle finish and the lasting flavor of fresh apple peel
With tannins and new-wood flavors, this rich wine is also structured. A smoky character from the wood is shot through by perfumed red fruits. The aftertaste shows more of the wood flavors that need to integrate. Drink from 2018.
Subtle hints of ripe, winter-stored apple on the nose lead to an equally apple-dominated palate that shows soft pepper spice. A wonderful midpalate texture and baked-apple richness are countered by lemon freshness. This is very appetizing and cries out for soft cheeses.
White summer blossoms and ripe green pears make for a fresh scent. The palate lifts these notions with bright lemon acidity. All is buoyed by some residual carbon dioxide. Drink soon while this is at its aromatic height.
This is a sophisticated blend of tart yellow fruits with hints of cucumber, salad greens and lemon oil. Though 80% stainless steel fermented, the rest spent time in new oak. The mineral rich acids provide extra grip.
Made entirely with Nero d'Avola, this offers aromas of black-skinned fruit, tilled earth and cake spice. The concentrated but also focused palate shows ripe black cherry and crushed raspberry while nutmeg and carob add depth. Lithe tannins and lively acidity provide the framework.
This youthful wine is shyer on the nose than its 2013 counterpart, but is still in development, revealing a complex and layered richness of red cherry and berry, as well as dried herb and lavender.
Here's a lively Moscato made in a dry style that opens with heady scents of jasmine, citrus blossom and yellow stone fruit aromas. The vibrant palate tastes of apricot, tangerine zest and a note of botanical herb alongside fresh acidity.
Crisp acidity and a gorgeous, aromatic nose lead on this elegant white. Though mineral-driven, it offers generous white peach and grapefruit flavors that will pair well with fuller-bodied fish. Impressive and versatile.
Among the well-differentiated single vineyard selections from Soléna in 2014, this may be the most instantly enjoyable. It's a big, mouth-coating wine, a full-flavored burst of chocolate-covered cherries. Lighter notes of coffee and tobacco filter in through the extended finish.
The oak in this wine is restrained, partly because it aged in stainless steel and a sizable percentage of neutral oak. Still, a richness of apple and pear compote provide a steady level of richness, while a lemon squeeze of acidity keeps it fresh and youthful.
Aromas of iris, rose, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of baking spice lead nose. The juicy, easy-drinking palate doles out fleshy wild cherry, black raspberry and black pepper alongside bright acidity and supple tannins. Chill this down for the perfect summer red.
Seductive, spicy oak in the aromas and flavors puts a great spin on this medium-bodied, velvety smooth wine from a promising new winery in Northern California. Some ripe black-cherry and cranberry flavors chime in as well, supporting the toasted baguette, cedar and nutmeg nuances and layering seamlessly.
Baked, rooty aromas of sandalwood, exotic spices and berry fruits are attractive. Though slightly grabby on the palate, this shows the right structure and build. Flavors of up-front oak, herbal plum and raspberry finish dry, with firm, pinching tannins. Drink through 2021.
Berry and cinnamon aromas are lightly woody and spicy. This is tannic but not mean or fierce. Flavors of oaky plum and berry fruits turn savory in front of a finish with a dry, snappy, slightly raw feel. Given that 2013 was a cold vintage, this Crianza deserves praise.
This full-bodied wine combines deep, ripe fruit flavors, light spicy accents and a very firm mouthfeel that begs for a bite of a grilled rosemary lamb chop. The wine pushes the stereotype of wimpy Merlot out of the way and does it with fruit concentration rather than obvious oak. Drink through 2020.
Apple, pear and stone-fruit flavors are vibrant and fresh from nose to finish of this delicately sweet Kabinett. It offers uncomplicated refreshment, but is anchored with taut acidity and honed, steely minerality. The finish is long and persistent.
A slightly herbal, minty character gives personality to this full-bodied, generous and richly textured wine. It is attractively dry, nicely tannic, layered with black cherry, wild berry and rosemary notes. Great to drink now through 2020 with rich meats or mushrooms.
An ambitious, concentrated, but not oaky wine, this has a very dark color, aromas of black cherries, and ripe but dry flavors of blackberries and dark chocolate. It is medium to full bodied, framed by lots of fine-grained tannins and finishing with more dark fruit. It's a good wine to lay down and drink after 2019.
Cherry pie and nuanced spice flavors buoy this delicately layered, medium-bodied vineyard designate that's built of robust fruit and supported quietly by oak. A thread of white pepper persists throughout, making it especially irresistible.
An aromatic textural wine, Wichmann sources fruit from the winery's oldest vines. Strawberry and cherry flavors are woven into details of citrus and tea. This elegant well-proportioned effort provides a feminine contrast to the sturdy Coast Range bottling.
This is the home estate of Madiran superstar Alain Brumont. The wine is big, bold, rich and packed with both fruit and tannins. It has great structure and a dense dusty tannic character that promises great aging. This is a major wine that needs time. Drink it starting from 2022.
This tremendous red wine is robustly aromatic, layering its black currant, dark cherry and chocolate scents with dusty sage and cedar. Luxuriously textured and smooth, it finishes focused and direct, with a lift of welcome acidity and complexity.
From a cool part of the Napa Valley, this wine is bright and medium bodied—a moderately oaked mix of lemon custard, floral citrus and green apple flavors with an underlying spark of lemongrass and ginger. Richly layered, it remains balanced and structured as it opens in the glass.
Many are now playing with the low-alcohol, nervy side of Chardonnay, but Doug Margerum succeeds more than most. This bottling is light in the glass, with clean and crisp Asian pear, nectarine and mandarin pith aromas. The palate is tightly wound and energetic, showing sharp citrus and rounded strone-fruit flavors. Drink now–2030.
One of the finest whites of the vintage, this exquisite bottling has an enticing bouquet of almond, orchard fruit, almond and chopped herb. The elegantly structured palate delivers mouthwatering peach, apricot, almond and energizing mineral ntoes that carry over to the long, lingering finish, along with a hint of tangerine.
Eight years is about right for a Madiran to start its mature phase. This wine is just there, a ripe expression of Tannat. It still has tannins and they will remain, but the fruit has lost its raw youth and has become rich with dried fruits and acidity working well together. Drink this wine now and until 2025.
This lovely, layered wine from the Santa Ynez Valley-based producer shows iron, cranberry, shiitake, cola and cherry on the nose. Those same elements are delicately woven into the palate, enhanced by a Sichuan peppercorn kick and vibrant acidity that will ensure a long life ahead. Its flavors continue to unwind as it opens in the glass.
Aromatically compelling, this offers a complex mix of clover, chocolate and cherry in the nose. It is a substantial, fruit-packed wine, with cherry and plum fruit, a full-bodied midpalate, mouthfilling texture and nicely integrated barrel spices. It finishes with a streak of Meyer lemon acidity. Drink now through 2030.
Produced from old Malbec vines in the second terrace above the River Lot, the wine is darkly concentrated, with solid tannins and generous black fruits. Aging for 12 months has smoothed the square corners to create a wine that is hugely rich and rounded. It has the potential to age and become more opulent. Drink from 2020.
Cloudy, pungent and supremely earthy, this wine reveals its delicate acidity over time, bringing balance to its flamboyant fruit. With intense strawberry, orange peel and black tea flavors, it's savory and richly built, finishing on a touch of smoky vanilla.
Pepper and cinnamon strike first, before beautifully aromatic notions of blueberry, plum and tart black cherry appear. These scented fruits pervade the entire palate with spice, verve and freshness. A wonderfully poised Sankt Laurent at the perfect intersection of restrained freshness and glorious richness.
High-toned aromas of cranberry, herb, black licorice and dried cherry are followed by tightly wound dark-fruit flavors backed by firm tannins. The finish extends into the distance. It's a highly structured wine, with its best days far in front of it. Best from 2021 through 2027.
Complemented with 11% Cabernet Franc, this vineyard designate from winemaker Jesse Katz shines in fragrant plum, raspberry and blackberry flavors. Softly layered and balanced, it teases with dark chocolate and clove hints.
Baked red cherry, vanilla pastry, loam, dried mint and forest floor notes all show in this excellent bottling from Bryan Babcock's family vineyard. Its tannic structure is immediately apparent, framing a core of raspberry fruit rounded out with thyme, oregano, black pepper and sea salt flavors. Drink 2021–2029.
Deep dark berry aromas come with notes of vanilla, gritty spice and tobacco. Hard tannins require cushion and this has just enough to handle things. Blackberry, cassis, barrel spice and molasses flavors finish with savory oak notes, chocolate and lingering blackberry fruit. Drink through 2030.
Juicy, vivid black cherry fruit appears on the nose of this wine, with a touch of tar and brooding elderberry. The palate brims with those appetizing flavors and adds an edge of licorice to the fruit. It's fresh and vibrant, with a fine, taut, gossamer structure. A delicious Pinot Noir that's as elegant as it is refreshing and honest.
Upon first pour, this only shows some earthy hints of evolution. With air, the aromas awaken and lovely notes hayflower notes emerge. The palate is laced with elderberry and dried oak leaf flavors and framed by smooth tannins. Just a little bottle age has given this an almost timeless elegance, proving a wine doesn't need power to shine, just depth. Drink now–2025.
This bottling reveals that this historic vineyard can produce incredibly rich wine as well as the zestier styles it is known for. It shows black cherry, candied strawberry and bourbon-like spice on the nose. The mouthfeel is lavish, full of purple fruit and floral flavors, as well as peppery spice and vanilla warmth. The acidity and structure are solid, and there's a touch of tar on the finish.
Crisp with peach and apricot goodness, this full-bodied white's gravelly texture works to its advantage, providing both steely acidity and grip. That grit becomes velvety smooth as the wine opens in the glass, making it irresistibly seductive and inviting.
Fruit from the oldest blocks in this pioneering vineyard is sourced here. It's bright, spicy and focused, with forward citrus-scented Bing cherry flavors. The concentration and length are outstanding, with just the lightest suggestion of green herbs rounding out the finish.
Bright, firmly structured and full of classic berry and savory flavors, this wine is rich but balanced and ready to serve with a steak, chop or rack for a special occasion. It has ripe fruit bolstered by firm acidity and a healthy coating of fine-grained, grippy tannins. Best after 2020.
Grown against all odds (and against all likelihood of economic viability) overlooking the Pacific Ocean atop Catalina Island, this Chardonnay is a success every vintage. It shows a broad spectrum of nutty aromas, from macadamia to cashew, with touches of honey and daffodil. On the palate, expect walnut, vanilla and oak smoke, with a butterscotch-like finish.
Another beauty from this producer and this appellation, Hughes is about granite-like minerality and rocky dust—a big-boned powerhouse from a powerful vintage that boasts generous spiced plum, cola, clove and black pepper flavors.
Oak leaf, tart strawberry and supple vanilla aromas appear immediately on the nose and continue their smooth interplay on the mellow palate. This is pliable in texture but has depth, backbone and inherent freshness. Delicious now, it has an underlying taut structure that will benefit from some bottle age. Drink 2018–2025.
A collaboration between Sonoma County-based winemaker Jesse Katz and Ken Forrester of South Africa, this 100% varietal red is robust and rich. Dark cherry, red currant and integrated oak flavors support its bold body.
This distinctive, complex and layered wine brings a unique aromatic profile of raspberries, sage and spice before fanning out across the palate with gorgeous raspberry syrup, dark chocolate and blackberry flavors. Its lightly grippy texture of fine-grained tannins perfectly counters the plush effusiveness of its fruit.
Like it's bigger sibling El Anejón, this Reserva from a warm vintage is almost one-quarter Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot in addition to Tinto Fino (Tempranillo). The opening of burnt earth, brandied cherry, rubber and herbal aromas is distinct. This feels a bit tough and chewy, with boysenberry, cassis, vanilla-cream and herbal spice flavors. A fairly smooth finish is young and vital. This should improve with aging. Best from 2019–2026.
A structured and still young wine from the estate owned by the Tari family, formerly of Château Giscours in Margaux. It is packed with black fruits, spice and dense tannins that are melding together so well. Licorice and wood aging give the wine an extra complex dimension. Drink this from 2019.
Hendry Vineyard Zinfandels are among Napa's best. With this release, Rock Wall brings their high alcohol, lusty touch to the wine. It's a huge Zin, dry and tannic, with ripe blackberry, dark chocolate and crushed black peppercorn flavors. Drink it now and through 2021.
This estate-grown, organic Chardonnay is a terrific value, detailed and brightly fruity, with precise angles and spicy details. The apple/pear/pineapple fruit flavors are crisply defined, perfectly ripe, and beautifully balanced.
The wine is a successful blend of various mountain vineyards. It's a classic California Cab, rich in tannins, with brisk acidity and finely-etched black currant, cassis, mineral and oak flavors. Blended with some Merlot, it's fancy and elegant, a real beauty to drink now, and will hold in the bottle until 2024.
With strong wood-aging flavors, this is a full, very ripe and concentrated wine. Coming from old vines, it has depth of flavor, both fruity and rich. Peach and pear flavors dominate, along with spice from wood aging. The wine needs some aging, so drink from 2015.
Intense aromas recall fragrant jasmine and honeysuckle alongside whiffs of exotic fruit. The round palate delivers juicy green apple, citrus and hints of yellow peach that end on a mineral note.
Right out of the bottle, it's all about acidity and fresh, primary raspberry and cherry jam fruit. Wait until 2018 allow more complex mushroom flavors to emerge, as the wine gradually sheds tannins and develops secondary bottle notes.
Whiffs of spice, honeycomb and lanolin meld curiously on the nose of this intensely mineral Riesling. Dry in style, with pretty yellow-cherry flavor, it builds in concentration and complexity as shades of spice, rock and fruit amass against a backdrop of sunny tangerine acidity. Drink now.
This dainty off-dry Riesling is marked by aromas—ripe stone fruit and florals against a backdrop of tea leaves and crushed minerals. On the palate, it's intensely juicy, with flavors of orange, mango and peach, but with a streak of acidity that ripples the tongue.
Lavish aromas of ripe peach, canteloupe and honeysuckle extend onto the palate of this juicy, fruit-forward Riesling. Semi-sweet in style, it's one lipsmacking nectar, with bracing lime acidity on the finish.
Zesty lime and evergreen notes mingle with luscious peach, plum and cherry aromas on this semisweet Scheurebe. The palate is juicy in stone fruit flavor, but refreshing and cool, with a bracing hit of acidity that lingers on the finish.
Smoke and jasmine-tea notes mingle seductively on this brisk, gorgeously floral off-dry Riesling. The palate is lush, with ripe peach and nectarine flavors that fill the mouth, finishing long.
This smooth, richly textured wine offers concentrated sensations of exotic fruit, apricot, smoky mineral, golden apple, hazelnut and a hint of honey. The palate is brightened by crisp acidity that gives a crisp finish. This will develop more complexity over the next few years. Drink now–2017.
From the estate vineyard, this is thick with spicy flavors of fresh-cut pear. There's a hint of butter and a slightly minty aspect. All in all it's complex, rich and inviting, with penetrating acidity.
This wine is full of fruit, dusty tannins and great structure. A smooth surface covers the complex, juicy black fruits, dense tannins and mineral texture. This wine will certainly age, so don't drink before 2017.
This Chardonnay is rich in all the bells and whistles, such as aging on the lees in French oak barrels. The underlying fruit shows ripe, racy tropical flavors, as well as peach and pear notes that are deep and delicious. With production of 8,400 cases, the wine should be easy to find.
Still young, it has dense tannins, spice from wood aging and a smoky bacon flavor that is still integrating. It will have the right weight and good berry fruits as it ages, giving a sense of presence and grandeur. Drink from 2018.
This wine is as dry as Chardonnay gets, almost severe, with the alcohol an amazingly low 13.2% by volume. The lean, angular mouthfeel provides hints of Meyer lemons, limes and wet stones, with a bit of tropical fruits suggesting that this is California, despite the vintage being the chilliest in memory. Drink it through 2020, but never too cold.
The blend is Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Merlot and Malbec. Cab Sauv brings rich black currants, as well as thick tannins. Merlot adds softer notes of cherries and violets. The Malbec increases the tannins, along with notes of grilled meat bone that Syrah, with its peppery, beef-jerky meatiness, enhances. The result is a young, vigorous wine, dry and balanced in acidity. It may or may not age, but there's no reason not to decant it now and enjoy with grilled beefsteak.
Here's a big Pinot Noir, dark, dense and tannic. In part, those tannins are due to 30% whole-cluster fermentation, which also gives the wine a brooding earthiness and spiciness. Fully dry, it's packed with black cherry, rhubarb and pomegranate fruits. Hold it until 2018 and see how it's doing.
Ripe, juicy peaches and nectarines burst from the nose and palate of this semisweet Riesling. Sunny and pristine, with a soft, lacy sweetness, it's balanced by bristling acidity and a delicate minerality on the finish.
Fresh, herbaceous notes on the nose and palate lend elegance to this rich, round Riesling, full of sweet canteloupe and peach flavors. It's delicately structured, with a zingy strike of citrus acidity and hints of spice that carry long on the finish.
This semisweet Riesling balances an intensely fruit-forward profile of ripe yellow cherry and quince flavors against a backdrop of crisp, tart tangerine acidity. It's sunny and bright, yet elegantly composed, with a bristle of fresh herb notes that linger on the finish.
Opening with aromatic notes of smoke against a backdrop of stone fruit and apple blossoms, this is a racy little Riesling that packs a powerful punch of flavor. Delicately sweet, with a saturated palate of yellow cherry and quince, it's smartly balanced by a sheen of minerals and brisk, bracing citrus acidity.
Wisps of smoke and candle wax seem savory in contrast to the ripe stone fruit and lemon aromas on this concentrated Riesling. Ripe, juicy tangerine flavors lend sweetness to the palate, but are cut with a vein of lime acidity that reverberates from start to finish. It's delicately textured, yet chock full of vibe and zest.
While remarkably lithe and delicate in style, this complex auslese is lusciously concentrated, with ripe peach and nectarine flavors balanced by hints of smoke, spice and musk. It's zippy and bright, with tart tangerine acidity and a wave of minerality on the finish.
Very sweet, honeyed flavors mark this dessert wine. It has apricot, pear, lemon and vanilla richness, brightened by crisp acidity. It's absolutely delicious for drinking now.
The low-yielding vineyards generate concentrated aromas and flavors of cantaloupe, yellow peach, elderberry, crushed tomato vine and exotic fruit. A juicy palate is supported by fresh acidity and the lingering finish ends on a mineral note. It's crisp and delicious now but still can develop more depth. Drink through 2016.
From a small estate, this big, ripe and fruity wine has swathes of black fruits to go with the dark, brooding tannins. Very broad and fruity, the wine is always likely to be structured. Drink from 2017.
This complex, mature wine has plenty of red fruit flavors, but its main character displays concentrated, tannin and spice. Hints of leather and rich acidity add their notes to this dense, dusty wine. It is ready to drink although it will still mature until 2020.
White wines are rare in the Côte de Nuits and this wine is as structured as many reds. It does have strong toast flavors, a juicy citrus character and pear flavors. They go with an apple skin and spice aftertaste, laced with acidity. Drink until 2022.
Rich blackberry and chocolate form around chalky tannins and a juicy palate, with a waft of cigar in the distance. Medium bodied, round and soft, the finish is brushed in cherry and pomegranate.
Tim Knappstein's decision to focus on the Adelaide Hills bears fruit in this terrific-value Pinot Noir. The aromas and flavors are a colorful mélange of beets, black cherries and purple heirloom tomatoes, backed by a rich texture and a long velvety finish. Drink now until 2020.
Stewed prune marinated in spirits, coconut, espresso and grilled herb aromas unfold in the glass. The firm palate offers dark cherry, coffee, anise and tobacco alongside bracing tannins bright acidity. Best after 2019.
A strongly wood aged wine, powered by tannins and dense fruits, it is concentrated and still young enough for the wood to show through although the fruit is developing well. This is a structured wine that will need plenty of time to age so drink from 2018.
This nose is rather closed but the firm palate offers ripe sour cherry, dark cooking spice, pipe tobacco and chopped herb. Fresh acidity and youthfully austere but refined tannins provide the backbone. Drink after 2019.
Vanilla, black-cherry soda and a berry crème brûlée character combine for a very playful and fun nose on this bottling. The palate tightens up that fun a bit but stays sexy, offering dark chocolate, red-berry jam and a shred of mint.
Stainless-steel fermented, this wine remains pungently aromatic in woody, earthy tones, with accents of fragrant orange blossom and pear, while staying crisp and light on the palate. Honey and lemon combine on the complex finish.
Classic Nebbiolo aromas of red berry, underbrush, tilled soil, aromatic herb and spice lead the nose. The bracing palate offers dried black cherry, anisette, mocha, toast and grilled herb alongside extremely assertive tannins and brisk acidity. Drink 2019–2031.
Aromas of red berry, sage, cinnamon and a whisper of menthol lead the nose and carry over to the solid palate together with juicy sour cherry, black raspberry, licorice and tobacco. It's a classic Barolo, straightforward and delicious, with ripe, integrated tannins and fresh acidity.
This opens with aromas of woodland berry, crushed herb and a whiff of well-integrated oak. The firm palate delivers dried Morello cherry, baking spice and mocha alongside firm, fine-grained tannin. It closes on a note of star anise. Drink 2016–2021 to capture the fruit richness.
Firm and full-bodied, this opens with aromas of mature plum, underbrush, baked earth, vanilla and exotic spice. The high-toned, chewy palate doles out ripe black cherry, raspberry jam, vanilla, mocha, white pepper and mint alongside polished tannins.
Classic Albariño aromas of sea brine, tropical fruits, lees and dust precede a minerally lemony palate with tangy flavors of lemon, lime and gooseberry. This is a fresh clean example with a long stony citrusy finish.
Nicely layered aromas of clove, graphite, iron and simmering black cherries show on the complex nose of this well-priced bottling. More iron and raspberry appear on the palate, where a balanced acidity pairs well with the strong mineral character.
This wine is all about juicy blackberry and delicious ripe black plums. It is structured, with dry tannins in the background, but up front is fruity, bold and with a lightly smoky, perfumed aftertaste. It is almost ready to drink; just wait until late 2016.
Vineyards in the upper Douro Superior region are able to produce surprisingly fresh and fruity whites like this, despite the heat and dry climate. Old vines go into this yellow and green fruit flavored wine with its lively acidity and totally refreshing palate. Drink from summer 2016.
Though 28 g/L of residual sugar is indicated, this lushly fruity and thoroughly delicious wine does not seem at all sweet, and just barely off dry. Peaches and pears combine in a lightly spicy but intensely flavorful wine with a myriad of food pairing possibilities, notably Thai noodle dishes, or poultry with a fruit sauce.
This is a floral blend of 48% Roussanne, 35% Marsanne and 17% Viognier. The Roussanne speaks loudest, while the whole offers a mix of dried and fresh apricot and creamy vanilla wafer that's light bodied and fresh with acidity.
This blend of Bordeaux grapes with Syrah is rich and spicy. It is made to be drunk young, with touches of toast and a dense texture that brings out the perfumed character of Syrah balanced with Bordeaux structure. The wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from late 2016.
From vines on the cooler left bank of the Serein river, this wine offers notes of toast, spice and ripe yellow fruits cut by tense, zingy lemon zest. It is textured, tense and full of minerality. Drink from 2017.
Delicate whiffs of tangerine and lime intensify on the palate of this Spätlese Riesling, complemented by swathes of green herb and pine frond. It's superlight in texture, yet penetrating, showering the palate in sweet-tart grapefruit and Meyer lemon flavors. The finish is crisp and clean.
While soft and approachable, this wine also offers a density of black currant and cherry that gives significant power and juicy exuberance. Sizable tannins risk overtaking the fruit, but never do, with the oak imparting a jolt of smokiness on the finish.
Aromas of mature dark-skinned fruit, scorched earth, exotic spice and a whiff of blue flower lead the way. The vibrant, savory palate doles out juicy black cherry, plum, ground pepper and anise set in a framework of racy acidity and softly polished tannins. Enjoy through 2018.
In this ripe vintage Folin has produced a full-throttle Tempranillo: tannic, chewy and firm. Blue plum and black cherry anchor the palate, with notes of tobacco, toast and composted earth.
Dark and brooding, this opens with aromas of French oak, espresso, clove and mature blackberry. On the extracted palate, licorice, vanilla and sweet baking spice accent a core of baked plum while bracing, fine-grained tannins provide the framework.
This appealing, youthful wine wraps bright raspberry fruit in a fragrant blanket of toasty oak. It's lively, detailed and impeccably fresh, with the balance to age gracefully through at least 2021.
Big red fruit embraces chewy, integrated tannins in this vineyard-designate, a full-bodied explosion of ripeness and bold expression. While powerful, it holds on to nuance via streaks of high-toned citrus, allowing the wine room to breathe and remain lighthearted.
This 100% Dijon-clone bottling offers a bold mix of peach, banana and pineapple. It's fruit-driven from top to bottom, with supporting acids to keep it fresh and invigorating.
Aromas of baked plum are joined by earthy whiffs of truffle, leather, game and cured meat. The aromas carry over to the ripe, dense palate along with fleshy black cherry, anise, mocha and mint. Velvety tannins provide the framework while a confectionary note backs up the finish. Drink 2017–2022.
Alluring aromas of violet, rose, dark berry and a hint of cured meat emerge on this firmly structured wine. The palate is rather extracted, offering rich black cherry, chocolate, tobacco and sweet spice alongside grippy tannins.
Waves of French oak, coconut, espresso and menthol lead the nose. The dense, extracted palate offers raspberry jam, vanilla, toasted oak and kirsch alongside packed, fine-grained tannins. The warmth of alcohol and a leathery note signal the finish. Nebbiolo purists may find the new wood sensations excessive but if you're into concentrated, oak-driven wines, you'll especially enjoy this.
This crisp, delicate Pinot Noir should be consumed over the next few years for its elegant cherry and rose petal notes and silky tannins. Hints of scorched earth and dry leaves add extra interest to the reasonably complex bouquet.
This lightweight, fruity wine is very direct in its acidity and canteloupe flavors. Citrus cuts the richness, while a fine chalky texture comes from the soil of the region. It's a wine to drink soon, fresh and packed with crisp fruits.
Cherry and plum aromas are earthy, gritty and not overly potent. The palate is saturated, with the right amount of body weight and volume. There's a blitz of berry and black cherry flavors, backed by a finish that's black in nature and shows mild bitter notes of chocolate and coffee.
Totally herbaceous, it's full of green herb flavors and tight with citrus and gooseberry. A light touch balances the intensity, giving freshness to the wine that's ready to drink now.
A red Meritage blend of 51% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 10% Cabernet Franc, 5% Petit Verdot and 4% Malbec, the name honors Dry Creek Vineyard's love of seafaring. With a nod to the Old World, it's lean and savory in black tea and exotic herb. Juicy, brambly berry come to the fore on the finish, which is still grippy on the palate.
A complex aromatic profile of the fruit, spice and savory elements found in plum chutney, this promising wine drops off a bit once sipped. But it is still tasty, with freshly picked plum flavors bringing fruit, tartness and tannins together, a bit of bacon fat on the finish.
This wine has both fruitiness and delicious, bright acidity. A subtle use of wood creates a firm structure under the black currant fruit flavors, giving a solid base on which to develop. Drink from 2017.
Fuller in style, it boasts layers of coconut cream pie, fig and honey, with a swirl of vanilla lurking in there too. Mineral-rich, the finish revisits the creamy, baked fruit theme, lush and generous.
Crisp with apples and citrus, it's also laced with a more mineral character. It's full in the mouth, very bright with acidity and grapefruit. Drink now.
This opens with aromas of plum, exotic spice and incense. The palate displays black cherry accented with white and black pepper, leather, licorice, espresso and balsamic notes but astringent tannins cut this short.
Big and flashy, it has oodles of almost sweet oak and ripe fruit character. Full-bodied, rich in texture, with ripe raspberry and red cherry flavors, it offers firm tannins and a lingering, vanilla scented finish.
From old vines planted on the Mayacamas Mountains, this Gewurz is pungent in lychee and grapefruit, a trace of pepper, ginger and clove hiding beneath the surface. Medium-bodied and dry, it offers a rich interplay between herb and spice plus freshness on the finish.
This fragrant wine is full of fresh citrus and green apple flavors that are crisp and lively. A steely element comes through to give structure.
One of the many estate Pinot Noirs produced by the pioneering Arroyo Grande Valley winery, which was founded as a sparkling wine house, this offers scents of sandalwood, black licorice and red currant. The flavors are tart with cranberry, then bring some bitter notes of crushed herbs.
Potent and pungent, it holds juicy acids tasting of grapefruit. It plunges into a chocolaty midpalate with strawberry fruit that thins into light flavors of soda pop.
Light and brigh, it comes from tSanta Barbara County grape-growing pioneer Louis Lucas. Aromas of orange juice, passionfruit and sugared grapefruit peel create a strong introduction. On the floral-laced palate, pear cider and night jasmine flavors make for a solid sipper if not particularly complex.
This Croatian white is a blend of Debit, Pošip, Marastina, Pinot Grigio and Chardonnay. It has heady aromas of dried fruits, fresh peaches and buttered toast. There are great flavors of fresh stone fruits and black figs in the midpalate, and a pleasantly astringent finish.
This retro-styled wine displays its new-wood influence. It opens with aromas of coconut, oak extract, coffee and espresso that continue onto the palate along with a hint of mint and spice. But there's not enough fruit richness to support the evident oak and drying wood tannins.
Light, bright and refreshing, it offers pear spritzer, lime zest and a hint of guava on the nose, followed by citrus rind, light papaya and apple juice on the palate. It makes a nice bridge between the richness of Chardonnay and crispness of Sauvignon Blanc.
An aromatic wine, it has a rounded texture, a spicy character and only light acidity. Very forward and fruity, it's going to be ready to drink by 2015.
The wine is rich, showing toast as well as apricot and peach flavors. It's full-blown, right up front with fruitiness and rounded texture. Drink now.
It balances a crisp texture against ripe fruitiness. Finely structured, it's very fresh with herbaceous fruits and lively acidity. Drink from 2015.
At this stage, the wine is closed, just hinting at its rich, fruity future. It has good acidity and a touch of bitter almonds, but the real fruitiness is still to come. Wait until 2015.
A collaboration between winemaker Nick Goldschmidt and his daughter Chelsea, this 100% Merlot delivers great value. Oaky in plummy black fruit and tobacco, it shows a touch of cedar and clove amidst mountainous tannins. An ideal wine for pepper steak off the grill.
White currants and fresh apricots dominate this fruity, fragrant wine. Bright acidity is enveloped by the generous texture and touch of toast. This rich wine is ready to drink.
The best of the winery's 2011 block reserves, this displays a solid core of cherry fruit, augmented with some streaks of steel and stone. It's firm and tannic, with plenty of tart acidity behind the crisp fruit.
This longtime Carneros producer sources from dozens of its own blocks to put together this estate Chardonnay. Intense in floral aromas as well as peach and lemon, it's dusted only slightly in clove and a light barrel imprint. Bright on the tongue and on the finish, it's a food-friendly wine that will complement.
Silky in cherry and strawberry with a dense midpalate of refined oak, this delicately hued Pinot comes from a single, hillside block of Cuvaison's Carneros property. With pretty aromas of violet and rose, it has richness that isn't overdone, a nice expression of the appellation's power and finesse.
A cherry-fresh wine that's so full of fruit that its structure becomes secondary. A dry edge of tannin supports the fruit and acidity, making this wine so drinkable now.
Plum and berry aromas are pure and compact. This is a lively, energetic, everyday Tempranillo with lots of bounce to its step. The power-packed palate is full of mixed berry flavors, while the finish is dense and comfortable, with residual weight.
Smoke and oak pronounce themselves vigorously on the nose and entry of this 100% varietal wine, which holds on with a tight grip. Black fruit dominates with leather, chocolate and tobacco playing secondary roles. The finish is lengthy and powerful.
In a small field of excellent Cavas, this bready, leesy, semi-rich bottling stands out for its totality and comfort on the palate. Along the road are aromas of burnt banana and toasted bread along with flavors of arugula, lime and dried apple. An elegant finish with stone-fruit and green-herb notes is sophisticated.
This Bulgarian Mavrud from Elenovo has aromas of blackberry, freshly brewed coffee, espresso bean, spice and a whiff of eucalyptus. It has flavors of blackberry, blueberry and black plums with rounded tannins.
Entirely sourced from this Sangiacomo family-farmed vineyard, which is planted entirely to the Old Wente clone, this wine offers fleshy and tropical juiciness and texture. Aged in French oak, the vast majority of it neutral, the wine lets the fruit and acidity speak for themselves.
From the renowned vineyard's F Block comes a wine with plump wild berries, pencil lead and juniper on a tightly woven nose. Certain to last for years and evolve steadily over that time, the palate now shows lavender, elderberry, elderflower, cranberry essence and a touch of black tea. Drink 2018–2028.
Cherry-rhubarb juice, shiitake mushrooms, sagebrush and iron make for a lush and layered nose on this appellation-blend wine that is widely available. The palate begins with plush red cherry then dives into oregano, sage and mace spice. It's expertly complex for a reasonably priced wine.
Ripe bramble and smoked nuts cast a savory edge to concentrated blackberry and cherry flavors in this robust wine. It's velvety and rich, but crisp, cranberry acidity and a granite edge lend elegance. Drink now through 2022.
Rich, ripe streaks of black cherry preserve are balanced by savory nuances of dried herb, toast and bramble in this luscious Pinot Noir. Aptly “lusty” in style, it's deeply concentrated with an unabashed fruit-forwardness, but crisp cranberry acidity and a penetrating earthiness gives it marked composure.
Hailing from Olsen and Elephant Mountain vineyards, this wine brings black currant, huckleberry and dark plum aromas that smell pure and sweet. The black fruit and smoke flavors display a mixture of concentration and restraint.
Scorched earth, toasted nut, espresso, cured meat and baked plum aromas lead the nose on this concentrated wine along with a hint of new leather. The big, chewy palate doles out mature black cherry, pomegranate, licorice and tobacco while tightly knit, fine-grained tannins provide the framework. Drink 2019–2023.
This wine is sourced from a handful of stellar vineyards, including Pratt, Dutton, Sullivan and Chenoweth. It was given 18 months in French oak, all of it twice-used or older, which contributes to an integrated, understated wood presence that's refreshing in its restraint. Creamy acidity and a taste of baked bread cradles lemon zest and almond before a crisp, lengthy finish.
Leafy underbrush, scorched earth, porcini mushroom and dried plum aromas lead the nose. The firmly structured palate offers dried black cherry, raspberry confiture and licorice alongside assertive, tightly-packed tannins. Drink 2018–2024.
A blend of fruit from the McGinley and Grassini vineyards, this wine is fermented in oak barrels, yielding a nose that's an approachable buffet of nectarine, wet cement, chopped lemongrass and wet hay. The oak also gives the palate more weight to deliver flavors of green-apple slices, kumquat, lime zest and cut lawn.
Deep, dark blueberry fruit meets with beef char, fudge chocolate and espresso-bean notes on the nose of this blend of 59% Petite Sirah, 15% Syrah, 14% Tannat, 7% Petit Verdot, 4% Grenache and 1% Viognier. The rigid tannins need a little more time to open, but the zesty blueberry, blackberry and black-pepper flavors shine across the fresh, sizzling acidity.
Ripe fruit and oak loom large in this wine, produced from relatively old vines in the heart of the appellation, long a source for the producer's Pinot Noir. Preserved lemon, fleshy melon and caramel dance around each other, steeped in Golden Delicious apple, honey and pear. A high wire of acidity marks the finish.
This comes in at 15g/L residual sugar, but it's more than offset with mineral-drenched acidity, so it drinks like a dry wine. Pale lemon in hue, it offers citrus flesh and rind in a young, yeasty, medium-bodied wine. The persistent, crisply-defined finish leaves a pleasing aftertaste of tangerine.
Plummy chocolate stars in this densely textured yet nicely lean wine, which finds balance and power in the glass. Cherry, blueberry and cedar make appearances, before a finish kissed in tobacco.
Boosted with 5% Barbera, this bottling for the estate's Bootjack Ranch shows ripe cranberry, red cherry, a pinch of herbs and touches of caramel and coffee syrup on the nose. A dense core of black plum skins at the palate's core is surrounded by bright cherry fruit, evolving into a dark chocolate and espresso touch.
This vineyard-designated estate wine is restrained and elegant, allowing for a sparkle of raspberry and black cherry to speak. The oak is light and integrated, and the minerality well defined, with just the smallest traces of black licorice and pepper coming through on the finish.
Tangy and intensely vibrant in citrus, this site-specific white sings in grapefruit pith and zest, layering those flavors atop spicy ginger and herb. It finishes bright and fresh on the palate, eager for food.
Cabernet Sauvignon makes up just over half of this blend with the rest Cabernet Franc and Merlot. Vanilla and cocoa aromas are out in front of herb, black licorice and dark fruit. The dark-fruit and woodspice flavors are refined and show a sense of depth, elegance and balance that captures the attention.
Amber gold in the glass, this Ribolla Gialla has aromas of wet river rocks, vanilla bean and honeycomb. It has a luscious mouthfeel with pronounced minerality and flavors of apricot, apple and ripe pear.
Not just an intriguing wine that geeks will love to find, this bottling of Charbono is intriguing and accessible to lovers of many different styles. Rich but fruity aromas of boysenberry, black plum, hoisin sauce and wood smoke give way to a palate laced with more plum and rounded purple fruit as well as touches of graphite and gravel.
Sunbaked earth, mature black-skinned fruit, menthol, dark spice and a whiff of cured meat aromas emerge in the glass. The ripe, concentrated palate offers dried black cherry, star anise and tobacco alongside mature, densely packed tannins. Drink 2018–2025.
Fresh and creamy, this delicious wine shows a fruit mix of melon, apple and pear, with just a hint of celery. It's balanced and crisp, with excellent penetration and length.
Mounds of decadent chocolate and cassis round out a smoothly textured wine dotted in dried herb and black olive, coming together in firm tannin and integrated acidity. The finish is leathery.
This amontillado smells complete, with a tight aromatic mix of raw wood, brine, citrus and dried stone fruits. The palate is racy, with razor-like acidity. Intense flavors of dried apricot, tart nectarine and almond skins finish full  and lasting, with cutting acidity.
Aromas of scorched earth, game, truffle and mature plum come together in the glass. The ripe palate offers dried blackberry, mature cherry, anise and almond alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
Chocolaty aromas and ample spicy, dark-fruit flavors power this generous and firm-textured wine. Everything seems in place and in balance, ready to take on a nice roast or braise.
This is pretty pale for a Tavel, with a coppery tinge to its pink color. Notes of lime zest, wet stone and modest cherry-berry notes finish on a bright citrus note.
This red blend is nicely dry, with abundant of dark plum and pomegranate flavors and a full-bodied, moderately tannic mouthfeel. It's easy to drink but bold enough to pair with hearty proteins.
This wine opens softly, with faint aromas of lemon-lime citrus and lean green fruit. The medium-weight palate offers a bit more concentration in green plum and lime tones, finishing pithy and somewhat bitter.
This uniquely tan-colored Torrontés is “orange” in style. Aromas of orange peel, peach, apricot and floor polish are challenging but complex. This immediately turns grabby and astringent on the palate, while stone-fruit and pithy flavors are short, quick and dry.
Gritty aromas of herbal berry fruits and coffee grounds lead to a hard tannic, compact palate with loud acidity. Disparate flavors of burnt coffee, tomato and stewed plum finish with scraping tannins and herbal notes that reflect the nose and palate.
This opens with scents of green melon rind, strawberry hull and lime that carry through to the palate alongside an additional note of peach. A pleasant grassy tone gives interest to the finish, while ample acidity keeps the palate fresh and clean. Drink now.
While light in color, this wine is flavorful and easy to enjoy. Its smoothly textured, medium-bodied palate carries generous red cherry and plum flavors.
This pale rosé blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot is fruity with crisp strawberry fruits and acidity. It has a soft perfumed aftertaste that makes it immediately attractive. Drink now.
This is the second label from this Gaillac estate. It is a fine mix of red fruits and spice—all fruitiness and with a strong shot of acidity. The wine is made to be drunk young; enjoy this summer.
A hint of maple syrup in the aromas and flavors gives this medium-bodied red a touch of sweetness. Oak flavors dominate the modest fruit on the palate.
A blend of 30% Pinot Noir and 70% Gamay, this is a fruity wine with the softest tannins and red cherry flavor. Made to drink young, it's somewhat spoiled by a banana-like edge that comes from its vinification.
This informal red has a shy nose that eventually reveals whiffs of black-skinned fruit and a suggestion of cooking spice. The simple palate delivers black cherry and vanilla alongside laid-back tannins. Drink soon.
This is a light wine with plenty of acidity and soft tannins that come together in a juicy, crisp, red fruit-flavored medley. Ready to drink.
A light orange pink color sets the scene for a fruity wine that has raspberry flavors, soft acidity and an attractive, crisp aftertaste. Drink now.
Named after the series of vineyard terraces that rise steeply from the Lot river, this wine is soft and easily accessible. It does have the Malbec structure although this is comfortably balanced by the black fruit and acidity. The wine will be ready to drink from 2017.
Fresh grass, gooseberry, lime leaf and a touch of melon rind appear on the nose and mouth of this straightforward wine. It's lightweight and easygoing, with brisk acidity and a crisp, refreshing finish. Drink now.
This wine veers slightly sweet, like many overripe red blends. It's deep in color, soft in and makes a good counterpoint to spicy foods.
This is bold for a boxed wine, showing ripe, lightly spicy flavors supported by a firm and moderately tannic texture. It's nearly dry, too.
Raspy berry and plum aromas lead to a palate dominated by tartaric acid. That, in turn, leads to sharp berry and plum flavors backed by a bracing finish.
This opens with aromas of resin and a whiff of dried flower that follow through to the lean palate along with hints of citrus and dried stone fruit. But it's cut short by extremely bitter sensations that recall walnut skin.
Basic white-fruit aromas are a bit dusty and yeasty. This feels plump, soft and creamy, with bitter-leaning green melon and papaya flavors. Notes of onion and grape skins rise up on the finish. This is a mix of Sauvignon Blanc, Chardonnay and Viognier.
This is an earthy blend of Touriga Nacional, Jaen and Trincadeira. Unencumbered by wood aromas, it's full of structured red berry fruit and balanced acidity and is ready to drink.
This is soft and accessible now, with plush notes of baked apple, creamed pear and oaky spice on the attack. The medium-weight palate is broad in feel, begging for a bit more lift to the rich fruit and buttered toast flavors. Drink now.
Narrow berry aromas are angular and punchy. This feels high in acidity, with hard tannins. That sharp acidity makes for tart unyielding black plum flavors.
An aromatic opening of compost and vinegar might suggest casting this aside. But flavors of strawberry and chocolate, along with an admitted weedy note, amount to something decent. Finishing notes of brown sugar and berry syrup are chocolaty and ensure that this finishes better than it begins.
This is a fresh and lively white, with some green bean and herbaceous notes to support the core of gooseberry and lime rind aromas and flavors. It's light and straightforward, but clean and so easy to enjoy. Drink now.
Already a bit light in color and showing some rust at the rim, this medium-weight, silky-textured wine features aromas of sun-baked clay and cherries. There's not much depth or richness, but the tart fruit makes for an easy quaff. Drink now.
This Pinot Noir-heavy sparkler opens with aromas of briny citrus and bready yeast. The palate is fresh and low on weight, with a dominating flavor of pink grapefruit. Overall, this is basic but easy to drink.
This is a simple, tart red, crisp in cranberry and red currant fruit and perfumed with spicy oak. Despite the high acidity on the front palate, it hangs heavy in full-bodied ripeness.
This straw-colored Chardonnay has aromas of apple and citrus blossom with flavors of creamy apple, vanilla and citrus pith. It has nice weight on the palate with a clean acidic finish.
A clean nose of citrus paves the way for flavors of grapefruit and Sevilla orange. This wine is soft and pleasing on the palate, but it may be touch tart for some tastes.
Seduction may be an odd word to use for a Malbec-based wine that is dark and drily tannic. It is structured and firm, with a dry core and black currant fruits. Drink this solid wine from 2017.
Concentrated aromas of blackened oak, blackberry, cassis, licorice and hickory smoke are clarion calls that this is a fully oaked, modern wine. In the mouth, it's heavy and tannic but doesn't trip over itself. Blackberry, cassis, burnt toast and campfire flavors finish equally toasted, peppery, charred and lemony, with chewy tannins. Drink through 2020.
With fresh green-apple aromas, and juicy apple and citrus flavors, this is a lively, crisp and well-balanced wine. Instead of going for overt oaky, buttery flavors and a fat mouthfeel, it stays nicely lean and refreshing, even with relatively full body.
Coming from a vineyard near Solvang, this wine by Mikael Sigouin shows orange sponge cake, honey and the slightest twist of petrol on the nose. The palate boasts orange blossoms and bright acidity, gaining complexity from chalky white rocks and the slight bitterness of Japanese pear peels.
Slightly oxidized aromas of marzipan, pressed yellow flowers, dried lemon rinds and apricot cream entice the nose on this wine from the historic vineyard by Joshua Klapper. The palate shows woody spice and a unique iodine character, with cinnamon, salt, sour yeastiness and a touch of tart citrus peel.
A hint of honey gives this wine richness while keeping every bit of freshness. It has tangy acidity, a mineral character and apricot and mango fruit flavors. Drink now, although the wine will be better from early 2016.
Rick Longoria's light winemaking touch even plays into this Spanish grape, which is daintier than regional counterparts. Red and Bing cherries mix with purple flowers, some dried fruit and vanilla paste on the nose. The palate leans herbal, with anise and chopped Italian herbs, also showing brick minerality and oak on the finish. The wine would definitely shine brighter with food.
Sangiovese, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah come together to offer scents of red currant, toast, cedar and spice. It's firm and savory, with notes of white pepper, aniseed and dried aromatic herbs alongside assertive tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
A black plum-extract character marks the nose of this wine from the folks behind Los Angeles' historic San Antonio Winery, but it's brown spice that dominates, particularly uncrushed cloves and anise seeds. Dried sour cherry and uncracked peppercorns show on the palate that is presented on rather chewy tannins.
Blueberry, chocolate, mint and clove aromas lead the nose of this blend of 50% Syrah, 35% Cabernet Franc and 15% Petit Verdot. The palate offers dried black cherries, coffee, cinnamon, black pepper and cocoa. Fine-grained tannins provide the framework.
Solid berry and cassis aromas are a touch baked on the nose. This is firm, moderately tannic on the palate, with baked plum, blackberry, vanilla and spice flavors. A woody note of maple gains prominence on the finish.
Full bodied and bold flavored, this is not overwhelmingly dark in color nor pumped up in ripeness. It does emphasize aromas of anise and dried plums, adding flavors of blackberrry juice and a sense of alcoholic strength. It is moderately tannic, while the texture is mouthfilling and the finish rather warm.
One barrel was new French oak, the other neutral. The cranberry fruit here is subdued and tart, while the barrel aging brings in popcorn, walnuts and even a trace of butter brickle. Give this bottle until 2017–2017 to open up.
Fruity and almost off dry, this appealing wine goes heavy on flavors of spicy pear and apricot jam. A streak of honey runs through, and a hint of wintergreen. It's already drinking well, so dive in.
This fruity, friendly Pinot opens with ripe berry aromas mixed with touches of minerality and latex. It feels fresh and sturdy, with black cherry and raspberry flavors. A pure, sweet, lightly chocolaty finish wraps things up.
This blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Merlot and 25% Petit Verdot offers aromas of ripe black-skinned fruit, blue flowers, vineyard dust and dark cooking spices. The firm palate delivers black currants, licorice, cinnamon, ground pepper and Mediterranean herbs. Bracing tannins offer support and leave an astringent, drying finish.
Creamy oak, herbal blackberry, vanilla and mild green notes make for an intriguing, spicy nose. A heavy, tannic palate brings the weight and thickness, while flavors of blackberry and boysenberry come with salty notes and a briny, herbal finish.
Despite the name, this is the value offering, not the reserve, from Soléna. Young, tart and tight, it displays primary fruit flavors of strawberry and raspberry, with sharp, lemony acids. Holding until 2016–2017 may help to smooth it out, but it's perfectly delightful already.
Deep purple fruit aromas of dried blackberries and pressed plums benefit from a fresh dill edge as well as a umami element on the nose of this wine from the Rice family, which started making wine in 1990. The acidity and alcohol combine for a tongue-tantalizing sip, with flavors of black cherries and dark herbs.
Made entirely from Cabernet Franc, this opens with aromas of green bell pepper, cedar and an herbaceous whiff of grass. The palate offers mature red currants, raspberries, exotic spice, toasted oak, herb and vanilla alongside bracing tannins. It has a tart, drying finish.
Brambly cassis and raspberry aromas are warm and a touch cooked. This is bullish, heavy and grabby in feel, with big tannins. Blackberry, cassis, herb and chocolate flavors finish ripe and dark. Drink through 2017.
The Riesling remains the highlight of this value-oriented lineup, and it's now in a pretty floral package. Bright fruit flavors of orange, tangerine and apricot jam abound, with a clean and fresh mouthfeel. There's a hint of sweetness, but not enough to render it incompatible with most foods.
This is 100% varietal, quite pretty in shades of pale pink, and perfectly dry without turning sour. Flavors of watermelon, pink grapefruit, rosewater and Jonathan apples all come into play. Drink it while the wine retains its youthful freshness.
Deep blueberry, prune and dried purple aromas are made even more delicious by hints of bacon fat on this blend of 60% Petite Sirah, 30% Syrah, 9% Mourvèdre and 1% Grenache. The vintner lives in the historic Uvas Valley between Gilroy and Morgan Hill. Purple fruit juiciness is balanced by a sharp licorice edge, framed by judicious acidity and tannins.
Aromas of underbrush, black fruit, toast and espresso lead the nose on the blend of Sangiovese and 15% Malvasia Nera. The palate is still resting heavily on its oak, showing coffee, coconut, vanilla and mocha, along with dried black cherry, prune and clove. The raspy tannins need to soften up but the fruit richness is already drying up.
This is a serious, wood-aged wine whose ripe fruits are dominated at the moment by heavy toast flavors. The fruit does offer weight and good potential, making it a structured, dark wine that is beginning to suggest a juicy future. Drink from 2017.
This is a herbal, earthy wine with as many tannins as fruit at this stage. That gives it a dense, dusty texture that seeps into the ripe, sweet plum flavors. With the wood giving an extra push of richness as well as spice, it needs to age. Drink from 2017.
To judge by the weight of the bottle, this is regarded as an important wine by the producer. The wine inside is attractive and fruity, ripe with berry fruits and considerable freshness. The tannins give the power for the bottle, dry and dense at this young stage. Drink from 2017.
Briny aromas of bell pepper, jalapeño and canned pea are green-leaning but not overly vegetal. This has a round mouthfeel and ample body to absorb the wine's acidity, while flavors of celery, bell pepper, lime and tangerine come with a strong grassy accent and a persistent, briny tasting finish.
This is a blend of Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc and Viognier (CSV). From estate vineyards in the Cahors region, it is a young wine, still developing its potentially aromatic character, fragrant acidity and rich pineapple and red apple flavors. Hold this wine and drink from late 2016.
This opens with aromas of toast, weedy underbrush and tobacco. The palate offers stewed plum marinated in spirits, anisette and coffee but not much fruit richness. Bracing tannins give it an astringent finish.
Pretty aromas of violet, rose and wild berry lead the nose. The bright but rather lean palate offers raw red berry, peppercorn and saline together with notes of dried sage. Astringent tannins create an abrupt finish.
Aromas are dominated by oak with accents of vanilla, cocoa and woodspice along with cranberries, rose hips, herbs and raspberries. The palate is elegant with herb and cherry flavors that lead to a tart, cranberry-filled finish.
Warm and robust, this has aromas of underbrush, spiced plum, grilled sage, leather and a balsamic note. The tightly wound palate offers dried berry, fig, menthol and licorice alongside super-astringent tannins and the heat of alcohol. A note of roasted coffee bean signals the close.
Though just five years old, this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Petit Verdot and Merlot already seems quite tired, with notes of leather, dried red fruit and mushroom taking the lead. It has a pleasing, silky feel but the tart fruit flavors seem past their prime.
Big, fresh and juicy, this is a bright and forward wine. Attractive smoky tannins are layered with fresh acidity and black currant flavors. The wine is already attractive, although there are enough tannins for it to age. Drink from 2017.
This wine is all fruit, crisp and with plenty of herbaceousness. A smoother character comes from the Sémillon in the blend that also gives richness. The wood aging shows only lightly, leaving fruitiness at the end.
Produced from young vines, this is the third wine of Larrivet Haut-Brion. As such, it is very accessible with its ripe, red exuberant fruits. The tannins are in the background, giving the necessary structure to a wine that will age quickly. Drink from 2017.
The dryness and tannins of this wine are on the outside. Inside it has plenty of juicy fruit, sweet acidity and black plum flavors. Put the two together and this ripe wine offers plenty of potential. Drink from 2019.
Hugely ripe Merlot is at the core of this rich wine. It is opulent, rounded and packed with dark plum-juice flavors. It verges on too much, too rich and too generous. What redeems it is the Bordeaux structure and final dry aftertaste.
Nearly equal parts Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc and Merlot, this wine is perfumed in lavender and awash in juicy red cassis. The acidity is medium to high, while the tannins are rough and chewy, suggesting the need for assimilation time.
The nose isn't very expressive, but the palate offers mature blackberry, dried cherry, ground pepper, espresso and anise alonside assertive, astringent tannins. The dried fruit shows the heat of the vintage so best to drink soon.
Oodles of black cherry and boysenberry fill the aromas and flavors of this bold but not-too-big wine. The rich, ripe fruit shows right away in the nose, and continues on the palate but gets reined in a bit (in a good way) by a firm texture created by good acidity and tannins.
Extremely fruity and rich, this stops just short of sweetness while delivering delicious cherry, mixed berry and plum flavors with just a touch of tannin and acidity to keep it fresh. It is quite full bodied and ready to drink now.
This 100% varietal wine offers aromas of fresh-ground coffee, chocolate, herbs and plum along with barrel accents. It's soft in feel with an elegant styling, trailing toward the finish.
The 60% Cabernet in the blend gives a dark fruit character. At this young stage, the wood aging still dominates with its burnt toast and chocolate character. For the future, while the wine will be dry, it also has plenty of fresh fruit. Drink from 2018.
This single-vineyard wine offers wild blueberry with vanilla and herb accents. It's full bodied and high-octane in feel with the flavors running straight down the fairway.
Grass and gooseberry are prominent on the nose and palate in this crisp SB, bright in dialed-high acidity. That sense of vibrant freshness mellows somewhat midway through the wine, allowing it to finish with a lushness on the tongue.
Generous sweet-tasting oak flavor coats the fresh plum and red cherry flavors in this medium-bodied wine. It has a broad, velvety texture, and shows good balance between ripeness, acidity and firm tannins. It finishes with a soft touch.
This wine hails from Lawrence and Antoine Creek vineyards and was barrel-fermented in new French oak before being moved to stainless steel. It starts out quite reduced and then opens to show notes of peach, pear and mineral. It's rounded and lightly oily in feel, tapering on the back half.
Tech sheets hint at Stagecoach Vineyard being involved somehow in this Syrah, a chewy expression of coconut, smoke and game around a dense, concentrated body and well-integrated tannins. The finish is all about mocha.
Predominantly Syrah (80%) with Petite Sirah and Viognier, this wine conveys raspberries, cherries, flowers, black pepper and dark coffee. It's lighter in style with lip-smacking fruit and barrel flavors.
Half Malbec with the rest Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot, this wine shows the oak up front, with dill and vanilla leading over plum and green herbs. The fruit flavors are plump and generous backed by vibrant acidity. Barrel notes linger on the finish.
Brighter and fresher than usual for this varietal, this shows green apple, lime, lemon and melon aromas and flavors. With a tangy, refreshing balance, medium body and crisp texture, it is fun and refreshing to drink.
This straightforward wine from the Riboli family portfolio goes down very easy, making it perfect for backyard barbecues. Cherries, dried rose petals and anise greet the nose. The palate isn't too complex, but delivers dark red fruits and pepper spices.
There are a lot of varieties in this blend, from Merlot, which makes up the majority, to handfuls of Syrah, Zinfandel and Petit Verdot. Sizable tannins wrap themselves around flavors of tobacco, juicy plum and oaky vanilla, finishing dry and ripe.
While the nose is delicate with faint hints of yellow plum and pear, the palate is surprisingly brawny and bold. Rich, buttery and voluminous, this wine showcases ripe citrus and apple flavors, but falls a bit short on the finish.
While delicately framed for its variety, this Gewürztraminer is concentrated with sunny tangerine and peach flavors. Delicate hints of smoke, spice and blossom accent the midpalate and linger on the finish.
This affordable, estate-vineyard 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is chewy in robust tar and leather, with companionable characteristics of cranberry and herb. The acidity is high-toned and the oak profile restrained.
Although light, this well-balanced wine has good depth. A dry core of tannins backs up the bright red berry and black currant fruits. Acidity and the tannins promise some aging, although the wine is drinkable now.
Here's a lively Moscato made in a dry style that opens with heady scents of jasmine, citrus blossom and yellow stone fruit aromas. The vibrant palate tastes of apricot, tangerine zest and a note of botanical herb alongside fresh acidity.
Crisp acidity and a gorgeous, aromatic nose lead on this elegant white. Though mineral-driven, it offers generous white peach and grapefruit flavors that will pair well with fuller-bodied fish. Impressive and versatile.
Among the well-differentiated single vineyard selections from Soléna in 2014, this may be the most instantly enjoyable. It's a big, mouth-coating wine, a full-flavored burst of chocolate-covered cherries. Lighter notes of coffee and tobacco filter in through the extended finish.
The oak in this wine is restrained, partly because it aged in stainless steel and a sizable percentage of neutral oak. Still, a richness of apple and pear compote provide a steady level of richness, while a lemon squeeze of acidity keeps it fresh and youthful.
Aromas of iris, rose, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of baking spice lead nose. The juicy, easy-drinking palate doles out fleshy wild cherry, black raspberry and black pepper alongside bright acidity and supple tannins. Chill this down for the perfect summer red.
Aromas of this wine show considerable wood. On the palate, the wood is very present, giving acidity as well as layers of toast and spice. Hints of yellow fruit show through, suggesting the possibility of a ripe, rich wine in the future. Drink from 2019.
A soft, stony scent of pebble and the faintest melon signals a fresh, clean wine. The palate plays these aromas out softly but also with precision. That stoniness lingers on the dry, gentle finish and the lasting flavor of fresh apple peel
With tannins and new-wood flavors, this rich wine is also structured. A smoky character from the wood is shot through by perfumed red fruits. The aftertaste shows more of the wood flavors that need to integrate. Drink from 2018.
Subtle hints of ripe, winter-stored apple on the nose lead to an equally apple-dominated palate that shows soft pepper spice. A wonderful midpalate texture and baked-apple richness are countered by lemon freshness. This is very appetizing and cries out for soft cheeses.
White summer blossoms and ripe green pears make for a fresh scent. The palate lifts these notions with bright lemon acidity. All is buoyed by some residual carbon dioxide. Drink soon while this is at its aromatic height.
This offers heady aromas of honeysuckle, white stone fruit, dill, hay and a vegetal note that recalls tomato leaf. The tangy palate offers juicy grapefruit, white peach and honeydew melon while mouthwatering salinity provides depth.
This is a sophisticated blend of tart yellow fruits with hints of cucumber, salad greens and lemon oil. Though 80% stainless steel fermented, the rest spent time in new oak. The mineral rich acids provide extra grip.
This is a sanguine, full-bodied and nearly jammy wine, rich and plush in black and red fruit and a curious twist of beef jerky. Cedar and cranberry provide a crisper, more classical edge burnished on the palate in leathery black pepper.
From 100% estate-grown grapes, and possessing 6.8 g/L of residual sugar, this wine is lovely in peach, pear and lemon, and quite voluptuous in texture, with a hint of spice. Pretty floral aromas of jasmine provide additional flourish and invitation, with the finish dry.
Enticing scents of cherry blossom, Spanish broom, crushed rock and Mediterranean herb lift out of the glass. The vibrant, tangy palate offers succulent nectarine, wild cherry, crushed strawberry and mineral alongside a backbone of lively acidity.
The Dead Arm is always firmly structured, making it one of the more challenging Shiraz to judge in its youth. The 2010 is full-bodied and chewy, characterized by dark, earthy and umami notes of roasted meat, asphalt and grilled mushrooms. The length and ripely tannic nature of the finish is reassuring. Drink 2018–2030.
Chocolate and blackberry form an impressively generous and full-bodied personality in this 100% varietal wine aged 22 months in a hearty percentage of new oak. Big tannin and traces of cigar and espresso continue on the brawny theme.
An earthy wine that offers complexity around a full-bodied juiciness of blackberry and bitter black tea, this is made in a big style and will appeal to fans of concentration and decisive use of oak.
Opulent blackberry aromas and a mouthful of jammy, grapey but dry fruit flavors put a lot of oomph into this focused, concentrated and well-balanced wine. It is just tart and tannic enough to pair easily with rich food, and those same qualities should help it mellow with age through 2020.
This full-bodied and densely textured wine has a deep color, aromas like wood smoke and blackberries, and flavors that saturate the palate with berries, clove and dark chocolate notes. It's bold in body, has plenty of tannins for grip, and a lingering, rich finish.
A winning combination of seductive, spicy aromas and generous, well-developed fruit flavors make this wine hard to resist. It is full-bodied, dry and quite full-flavored, but without overdoing anything, so it's well balanced.
Allowing Zinfandel to take the 60% lead in this marriage with Cabernet Sauvignon, this is an impressive mingling of the two. Black pepper, clove and leathery cigar fuel a high-powered succulence of black and red fruit accented by a smoky drawl.
Generous fruit and spice flavors and a full, chewy mouthfeel make this an appetizing wine to pair with big food. It smells like black cherries, tastes ripe and berry-like and has accents of cinnamon and cardamom. The texture is supportive and lightly astringent, with fine tannins.
Spicy, herbal plum and cassis aromas mix in notes of olive and wet dog fur. This is more spunky and fresh than dense. Leafy berry, plum and olive are the key flavors on this Carmenère-led blend that finishes herbal and spicy, with high-toned residual acidity.
Smoky, oaky, charred flavors of savory plum and berry lead to a full, layered palate with slightly abrasive tannins. This tastes of grilled beef, lemon peel, toast, cassis and chocolate. A toasted character remains on a solid finish. Drink through 2020.
Dried purple flowers and dark cardamom spices are layered across aromas of blackberry, roast beef, soy, jerky and peppercorn on the nose of this blend of 52% Syrah, 40% Mourvèdre and 8% Grenache. A solid, nearly chewy structure unveils dark flavors of beef char, pencil lead, blueberries and a touch of asphalt.
Aromas of gingerbread cookies with a black-cherry glaze meet black gravel and a touch of asphalt on the nose of this complex and flavorful bottling. The palate blends the brightness of red cherry and strawberry fruit with a rocky minerality, spiced up by black pepper and settling into a plum-skin groove toward the finish.
While relatively full-bodied and tannic, this wine also has friendly, fresh berry and cherry flavors that are held in place by very firm acidity and tannins. It feels and tastes generous but also strong and taut, so it should improve with a little time. Best to drink now through 2020.
A dusting of crushed slate and saffron accents this zesty lime and honey kissed Kabinett. It's dancingly light on the palate, but concentrated with swirls of marmalade and orange-peel flavors that extend through a long finish. Drink now through 2025.
Aromas like mint, dried cherry and new oak complement bright, ripe fruit flavors in this full-bodied, densely textured wine. It has a lip-smacking freshness, lively tannins, a lot of complexity and a lingering finish.
Smoke and oak pronounce themselves vigorously on the nose and entry of this 100% varietal wine, which holds on with a tight grip. Black fruit dominates with leather, chocolate and tobacco playing secondary roles. The finish is lengthy and powerful.
In a small field of excellent Cavas, this bready, leesy, semi-rich bottling stands out for its totality and comfort on the palate. Along the road are aromas of burnt banana and toasted bread along with flavors of arugula, lime and dried apple. An elegant finish with stone-fruit and green-herb notes is sophisticated.
Fresh whiffs of strawberry and blossom go hand-in-hand with more evolved complexities of mushroom and yeast in this invigorating rosé sparkling. While delicately moussed, it's Pinot-Noir heavy blend lends a satisfyingly voluminous feel to the palate.
Oak and spice components fill the aroma. The flavors are rich and concentrated, making this a big yet seductive wine. Layered and complex, this full-bodied wine is well supported by fine, velvety tannins.
Bready white-fruit aromas are a touch funky and difficult to gauge. In the mouth, this is foamy but secure, with lemon-lime and nectarine flavors. This feels precise on the finish, with mild yeast and bread flavors.
From the producer's main ranch and blended with 11% Malbec and 4% Merlot, this classically structured, crisp wine offers notes of thyme, blackberry and tar. Medium bodied on the palate, it finishes in juicy cassis and will stand up to cellaring. Drink now through 2020.
Dried cherry and strawberry notes are marked by a hint of anise on the nose of this lush, velvety Pinot Noir. While delicate in frame, ripe berry and cherry flavors build in concentration on the palate, accentuated by a spray of pomegranate acidity and lingering bramble notes.
Brilliantly fresh, this wine is tight with acidity and textured with zingy citrus. Layers of apple and toast are already integrated in this bright wine. It's tangy, lively and likely to be ready to drink from 2017. The wine comes from the highest vineyard in Chassagne.
Produced from the rare Romorantin grape, this wine is honeyed as well as crisp and fragrantly fruity. The 50-year-old vines give extra concentration to this lightly wood-aged wine that is ripe while also light and poised. Drink now, although it would be better to keep it until 2017.
Part of the same family business as Philippe Girard's wines (Benoît is his brother), this is a ripe, pure and clean wine. Perfumed acidity and zesty flavors are integrated into the rich green fruit. Apples and green plums dominate this refreshing wine that will develop. Drink from 2017.
This is a spicy, earthy and medium-bodied selection, lengthy and concentrated in cardamom and forest pine. The fruit tends dark and brooding, with a brambly character balanced against the crispness of acidity. The spiciness persists through the finish.
Smooth and engaging, this offers classic varietal flavors in the context of a northern climate. Red licorice, coffee, tobacco, hemp and dried herbs are all in the mix, with some fruit leather and hints of violets.
Black cherry, red raspberry, dried violets and graphite scent this Thracian Valley Syrah. It is full bodied, tasting of blueberry preserves, black cherry and espresso beans. The tannins are soft and round and lead to an elegant finish.
Produced from two parcels in Aloxe Corton, this structured wine has red-plum fruitiness that is still masked by a dry tannic coating. It has concentration and good potential. Drink this textured, firm wine from 2018.
This wine is packed with ripe fruit, fresh acidity and crisply textured minerality. Finely wrought, it's structured and made to age, with a strong steely backbone to the otherwise fresh lemon and lime flavors. Drink from 2018.
Damp sagebrush, dark cranberry, buttered black cherries, fresh plucked marjoram and wet stone show on the nose of this bottling. The tip of the sip shows great thyme, bay leaf and anise character, then settles into rich cranberry fruit, all held together by a decent tannic grip. The dark fruit flavors linger deep in the finish.
This offers aromas suggesting forest floor, porcini mushroom, grilled herb, leather and mature berry. The ripe, chewy palate displays black cherry, sage, licorice and toasted nut alongside tightly wound tannins that need to unwind. 2018–2024.
This is pretty pale for a Tavel, with a coppery tinge to its pink color. Notes of lime zest, wet stone and modest cherry-berry notes finish on a bright citrus note.
Dusty apple and mineral aromas are composed, not loud, while additional peach-pit notes are crisp. This mature Godello is round and solid in composition, while stony apple and quince flavors finish long and in good shape. Drink now.
This amontillado smells complete, with a tight aromatic mix of raw wood, brine, citrus and dried stone fruits. The palate is racy, with razor-like acidity. Intense flavors of dried apricot, tart nectarine and almond skins finish full  and lasting, with cutting acidity.
Aromas of scorched earth, game, truffle and mature plum come together in the glass. The ripe palate offers dried blackberry, mature cherry, anise and almond alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
Chocolaty aromas and ample spicy, dark-fruit flavors power this generous and firm-textured wine. Everything seems in place and in balance, ready to take on a nice roast or braise.
Wild cherry, rose, spice and chopped sage aromas come together on this round, savory wine. The juicy palate offers fleshy black cherry, raspberry, star anise and a coffee note set in a framework of polished tannins. Drink through 2018.
A blend of 85% Sangiovese, 10% Colorino and 5% Canaiolo, this offers pretty aromas of pressed rose, violet, berry, menthol and a whiff of ground cooking spice. The linear palate offers mature black cherry, orange zest, clove, white pepper, licorice and a hint of pipe tobacco alongside firm, fine-grained tannins.
Black fruits, fine herbs and horsehide carry the aromas of this offering. In the mouth, this is firm and well built, with integrated tannins. Savory flavors of soy sauce and roast plum share space with bolder, riper cherry notes, while a warm, earthy finish tastes of roasted plum and berry. Drink through 2021.
Mostly Sangiovese with 5% Colorino and made by refermenting with partially dried grapes, this wine offers aromas of dried plum, clove, scorched earth and a balsamic note. The concentrated palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, licorice and a note of ground pepper that lead to a firm finish.
Luminous and fresh, this opens with aromas of red berry, violet, chopped herb and a whiff of baking spice. The vibrant, linear palate offers red cherry, strawberry, white pepper and star anise alongside racy acidity and polished tannins. Enjoy through 2018.
Pressed violet, perfumed berry and a hint of baking spice aromas unfold on this sleek, savory red. The medium-bodied palate delivers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon, clove and star anise alongside firm, polished tannins. Drink through 2021.
Red berry, chopped herb, blue flower and menthol all come together on this elegantly structured red. The juicy, accessible palate offers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, licorice and a hint of vanilla alongside round tannins. Drink through 2021.
A dark nose of black tobacco, condensed violets, soy, black pepper, black plum and aromatic wood shows on the nose of this wine from a longtime Paso estate, now owned by the Foley family. The palate offers an intriguing sense of black pepper and dried violets, followed by lavender, thyme, rosemary and elderberry laid across fine-grained but structured tannins.
Winemaker Mark McNeilly from Mark Ryan Winery makes this estate grown Viognier, and works it in the same strong, substantial, concentrated style as his own release. The mix of concrete and neutral oak fermentation brings out some nice floral highlights and a light hint of toast. The length and flavor development through the long finish are exceptional.
Unctuous and ripe in caramel and toasty aromas, this is deep golden in color but completely crisp and balanced in the glass. The nose is so overwhelming that the flavors take time to show. Once they do, it's a celebration of green apple and melon enveloped in complex minerality and a supple body.
The aromas of this Chardonnay are zesty and fresh yet rich, with barrel smoke, caramelized pear and vanilla tones. The integration continues on the palate, with a bit of oak followed by apple, white peach, nectarine and lime zest. It's flavorful and enjoyable now.
Deep, pure cassis and red berry aromas are integrated and thorough. This Bordeaux-style blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc and Merlot is racy, tight and hard-driving, with bold berry, pepper, baking spice and chocolate flavors. A toasty, peppery finish is juicy, forward and long. Drink through 2020.
An enticing fragrance of rose, blue flower, incense and truffle wafts out of the glass. On the palate, accents of black pepper, espresso and licorice add depth to the bright cherry-berry fruit, while polished tannins give it a smooth, silky texture. It's well balanced and fresh. Drink 2018–2030.
Pure fruitiness with a deliciously tangy texture mark this wine. It has a rich, juicy character with light spice to highlight the green fruits and zesty bitter orange flavor. At the moment, the wine is all fruit and it needs to age to bring out the greater depth. Drink from 2017.
Sweet oak, vanilla, plum, violet and mocha aromas lead the nose on this structured wine. The oak influence carries over to the palate together with ripe black cherry, leather and baking spice. The tightly compacted tannins need time to unwind. Drink 2020–2035.
Underbrush, tobacco leaf, leather, truffle and blackberry aromas take center stage along with whiffs of toast and fig. The palate shows black cherry, carob, bitter cocoa, white pepper and sage alongside bracing tannins that leave a drying finish.
A brand new vineyard designation for the winery, Bedrock dates to the 1800s and is being made famous by proprietor Joel Peterson of Ravenswood and his son, Morgan Twain Peterson. This wine does the site justice, a smooth concoction of cherry pit and allspice, elegant and yet plenty generous in fruit and structure, measured by natural acidity.
Buttered sourdough toast and a slight nuttiness kick off another excellent Chardonnay from the ever-reliable Talley. The palate is greeted with minerality that fades into an apple butter flavor alongside a pinch of cinnamon, culminating in a graceful vanilla finish.
Made entirely of Pinot Nero, this elegant, structured sparkler opens with aromas of rose, berry and yeasty sensations of freshly baked butter cookies. The palate delivers a nice depth of flavors including tart red apple, wild strawberry, sage and marjoram alongside brisk acidity and an elegant, persistent mousse. It's already delicious but will also age well over the next few years. Drink through 2019.
Fresh and refined, this has an intensely fruity nose of wild berry, forest floor, pine and rose petal. The bright palate doles out crushed strawberry, Morello cherry, vanilla and cinnamon alongside smooth, supple tannins and bright acidity. Nicely balanced and focused. Drink through 2025.
This lightly wood-aged wine is slightly austere in style, with plum and blackberry tones providing weight. Some tannins and acidity accompany its fine, fruity core, giving a more serious note to this wine. Drink from 2018.
Still dark and dense, this young wine has power and structure on its side. The tannins and concentrated firm texture promise aging, allowing the big black fruits to be released. Made from vines in the Douro Superior; drink from 2017.
The wine is crisp, packed with grapefruit flavors and with a tight texture that suggests it could age. A tang and a steely acidity comes in behind the fruit and offers an austere aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
A stellar wine at Kiona for decades, this includes 11% Gewürztraminer in the blend, and is finished at 83 g/L residual sugar. The palate impression is more juicy than sweet, with rich fruit flavors of ripe grapefruit, peach and apricot. The balance, acidity, length and texture are spot on.
Jet-black aromatics of creosote, charred meats, pepper and plum-blackberry jam make an excellent entry point for this wine from a vineyard in the new Ballard Canyon appellation. Blackberry sauce leads the palate, with espresso bitterness and strong acidity throughout. A powerful but beautiful Syrah.
Lightly toasted tobacco, blueberry pie and cedar scents lead the way on this single-vineyard Cab. Fresh blueberry on the palate combines with a great arc of flavors that ends in a chewed cigar finish.
Pure Merlot from the Stillwater Creek Vineyard, this finished its fermentation in concrete egg, then spent 20 months in 100% new French oak, and another two years in bottle prior to release. Tightly wound and dense with cherry and chocolate layered throughout, it brings in flavors of red licorice and baking spices. The tannins are silky and the structure and flavors are bold.
Many red wines from Epiphany, run by the family of the late actor Fess Parker, have a nose-tickling singed-cedar aroma. It works great on this blend of 57% Syrah and 43% Cabernet Sauvignon, leading into a palate heavy with espresso and dark chocolate-dipped cherries, culminating in a mocha finish.
This is the second vintage release for the estate vineyard, which occupies the highest planted portion of Red Mountain. Precise, sharp-edged, high-acid red-fruit flavors of berry and cherry seem stacked vertically, with a strong mineral underpinning. The alcohol is a bit high, but overall the structure holds together and would support further aging; drink now–2022.
An aromatic profile of crushed mint, hot gravel and red fruit introduces this blend of 83% Grenache and 17% Mourvèdre. It's lightweight on the palate, but with complex flavors of herb and spice that swirl around a core of blackberry fruit and finish with mouthwatering acidity.
Reedy, berry aromas come with a shot of eucalyptus, which is very Chilean. A tight, tannic, dry palate is exact and intense. Flavors of leafy and slightly herbal black fruits are matched by licorice and coffee notes, while the finish is long, dry, snappy and loaded with earthy spice notes and hints of olive and mint. Drink through 2019.
An aromatically vibrant wine with notes of slate, peach, apricot and citrus. It drinks off dry, with exquisitely balanced acidity and a lot of depth and richness to the fruit flavors. Impressive stuff.
This blend of 50% Syrah, 23% Petite Sirah, 17% Mourvèdre and 10% Grenache presents a delicious strawberry cake nose, backed up with dried purple flowers and cigar box backbone. On the palate, elegant purple fruits are laced with leather and pepper, finishing with a cleansing tartness.
This is the first vintage for this blend of 75% Cabernet Sauvignon and 25% Sangiovese. Ripe, lush and complex, it offers flavors of plum and cassis, with an appealing texture and moderately gripping tannins. There's life and snap to the finish, and though it's already delicious just two years after the vintage, another year or two of bottle age should see it continue to improve.
This is balanced and elegant in subtle pear, ginger and lemon. A fine food wine, it's ideal for roast chicken in herbes de Provence or ratatouille. Located in the Petaluma Gap and the source of grapes for several wines, Sun Chase was bought in 2013 by Guarachi Family Wines.
This cloudy, amber-colored wine isn't for the faint of heart. Made from ancient Grecanico, Carricante and Catarratto vines on the slopes of Mt. Etna and aged in terra cotta amphorae, it's mineral-driven with intense flint, smoke, nectarine, citrus, ginger, white pepper and balsamic sensations supported by an acidic backbone. Boasting great depth and complexity, it evolves continuously in the glass.
Aromas of crushed plum, asphalt, oak, toast, exotic spice and forest floor lead the nose. The palate delivers black cherry, mocha, licorice and mineral alongside bracing, tightly woven tannins that need time to unwind. Drink 2017–2031.
This is a wonderfully balanced wine, bursting with ripe spice as well as acidity. It's a rich wine, now showing maturity without losing its fruit. The depth of flavor, drilling right down to the mineral structure, is impressive. Drink now, although also wait until 2016.
The color of this Malbec and the legs it gives off help separate it from the pack. A plush nose shows unabsorbed oak and char along with deep berry and cassis notes. Total saturation on the palate matches the nose, and this tastes of chocolate, mocha, wood spice and rich berry fruits. Oak is currently speaking the loudest on the finish. Drink through 2023.
The floral perfume of this cool-climate bottling is intense—all lavender accented with black pepper, white pepper and thyme. Tart black plum skin flavors lead the palate, building towards savory elements that recall dried purple flowers, thyme, rosemary and black pepper. Medium bodied and dense, it will be versatile with food.
Sourced from the producer's Stanly Ranch Estate Vineyard and Hyde Vineyard, both in Carneros, this is a stunning effort. Its baked pear fruit provides hefty body and texture, while honeysuckle and apple blossom notes and a squeeze of lemon-like acidity keep it balanced and fresh.
This is an impressively ripe and solidly fruity wine. Blending mainly Tannat with Cabernet Franc and Cabernet Sauvignon, it is certainly structured. But it is the brilliant black fruit that gives this wine its real character and density. It is impressive, and obviously made for the long haul. Drink from 2021.
Bob Lindquist shows his mastery of cool-climate fruit with this bottling, which is redolent of asphalt, cracked black pepper, rosemary, lavender and damson plum. It's fairly light in body but strong in tarry structure, offering loads of cracked peppercorn flavor with its juicy purple fruit.
This feral and gamy wine shows roast lamb, rosemary, dried fennel, rose petal and forest floor aromas on its dynamic nose. The palate leads with explosive acidity, before waves of Concord grape and blackberry flavor take hold. It's light on its feet but has some textural firmness, finishing on rosemary, lavender and game notes.
Light gold in color, this wine is focused and bright. A jasmine aroma and succulent green-apple flavor pairs with steely minerality, offering power and grace in one satisfying package.
Aged in wood, this wine is rich and spicy. Its fruit though is beautifully in balance, ripe with raspberry and red-currant fruits that are shot through with lemon acidity. This is a full-bodied wine, impressively structured and likely to age for a year or two. It is named after the 946 steps up the mountain behind the estate. Drink from late 2017.
This lightly wood-aged wine, from an estate that has only changed hands three times in 400 years, is crisp, tight and very young. It has fine potential for the future. There are elegant fruits, spice and intense acidity that needs to soften. Produced from selected high-altitude parcels, the wine is balanced between the tangy texture and mineral fruitiness. Drink from early 2018.
The estate wine from this Cahors showpiece property, it shows the rich intensity that can be conjured from Malbec, packed with tannins but also with dark, ripe-berry fruit and great intensity. It is a wine with potential—with a tannic structure that will see the wine starting to drink from 2020.
Named after the year 2008, when Provence's La Londe became its own appellation, the wine is an impressive selection from specific parcels in the dry coastal slip between Toulon and Saint-Tropez. It is textured, full of ripe fruit, red berries and a squeeze of lemon juice. The wine is full bodied, rich and likely to age for a few more months. Drink from early 2018.
The top cuvée from Roubine, this unusual blend of Tibouren and Clairette is intensely perfumed and ripe and with a fine stylish character. It is an impressive wine with yellow fruits as well as red currant and citrus. This food friendly wine should age a bit, so drink from late 2017.
The Daou brothers have become increasingly known for their rich, unctuous and lavish high-end wines, but this bottling offers a taste of that opulence for just $30. Plump blueberry and soft, cedar-like spice scents show on the nose, while the palate bursts with black cherry, dark chocolate and caramel flavors, powered by ample acidity. It will age gracefully, but is already delicious.
From the producer's estate vineyard on Mount Veeder, this 100% varietal vineyard designate is oaky, viscous and intensely flavored with green apple, melon and peach. Delicious honeysuckle and grapefruit peel aromas make it all the more compelling, balancing its voluptuous weight and ripeness.
From an aptly named vineyard, this whopper of a wine blends 37% Zinfandel, 32% Syrah, 16% Grenache and 15% Mourvèdre with 24% new oak and 20% whole-cluster fermentation. The result is a perfume that's both tart with boysenberry and rich with caramel, oak and cola. Black plum, gravel and bay leaf flavors surround its meaty core, persisting deep into the finish.
Multiple vineyards contribute to this standout blend. It feels open and accessible, yet carries the structure to age gracefully. You'll find interesting threads of freshly picked herb, lemon oil, pimiento and olive supporting citrus and fresh apple fruit.
Earthy with dusty loam and forest scents, this wine is intensely rich, with grippy, chewy tannins. Fine-grained oak notes support dark chocolate, clove and tobacco flavors, accented with fruit-forward elements that recall wild blueberry and blackberry. Structured to age, it will be best from 2023 through 2030.
The first vintage of this small-production wine, this is meaty, full of smoky pepper and dense red and blue fruit. It's powerfully built and structured, packing a finishing punch of roasted coffee and chocolate flavors. A worthwhile new discovery and a producer to watch.
Domaine is the winery's top Pinot Noir: all-estate grown, from grapes now certified biodynamic. It's an accessible, pretty wine, with rich flavors of pastry fillings—think raspberry scones. It's got a tart, tangy grip and the length and structure to age at least a decade.
Flawless on the nose, this amontillado purchased from the solera of Señor González Obregón is full of lift, power and toffee on the nose. There's zero excess weight to the palate, which features flavors of nuts, salt, caramel and dried apricot. On the finish, a hint of buttered toast offers an umami offset to acid-driven raciness.
Textural and beautifully detailed, this offers front-loaded flavors of cola, cocoa, graphite and tobacco, wrapped around blackberry and black-cherry fruits. Despite the relatively steep alcohol, this drinks in a lighter, more elegant, yet quite showy style.
Made entirely from Chardonnay grapes grown in one site, the inaugural vintage of this cuvée is delicious. It offers a rich core of almond paste flavor, with inviting peach, apple and pear fruit tones, all while remaining light, bright and highlighted with wet stone and gravel.
The wine comes from a parcel of land planted with both Merlot and Tannat. In its structure, this great wine has a strong connection to the Madirans that are the hallmark of this producer. With maturity, the wine has developed fine secondary flavors and undergrowth and dried-fruit flavors. The wine, named after a standing stone found in the area, is very ready to drink.
From the cool plains of the Petaluma Gap, this wine shines in violet and blueberry crumble aromas. Light bodied, it reveals deeper, darker pepper steak-like flavors as it opens, finishing on an elegant aftertaste of clove.
This modern-style Tempranillo is registering at max ripeness. Aromas of black fruits, raisin, tire rubber and toasty French oak project a dark outlook. In the mouth, this is tight and gripping. Flavors of blackened oak, cassis and blackberry finish firm and closed, with manageable tannins. Drink through 2025.
Bryan Babcock heads to Bentrock Vineyard on the southwestern edge of the appellation to deliver this wine redolent of red cherry, plum, mulberry, peppery spice and sagebrush. The palate is rich and full bodied, with tangy red plum skin and eucalyptus touches, finishing on a fresh, menthol-like note.
This is one of the most beloved Chardonnays from Santa Barbara County, and for good reason: Bryan Babcock manages to imbue his wine with buttery richness yet also balance it with acidity and smoke. Honeysuckle, almond and Gravenstein apple aromas lead into energetic yet creamy marshmallow and poached pear flavors, all cut with citrusy acidity.
Unusual aromatics conjure ruby red grapefruit, Douglas fir needles, green tea and a touch of cola. The site, which is rather cool, fills in the main palate with grapes offering sleek subtle flavors of mountain berry.
This herb-laced wine comes from a 1,100-feet elevation outpost five miles from the ocean and shows both feral notes and robust fruit. Tart cranberry flavor dominates, complemented by orange peel nuances. Its tannins are in full force, calling for more time in the glass if not in the cellar. Best the second day after opening, if one can wait.
This hearty and heavily spiced take on the grape offers fascinating black cherry, cardamom, chai spice and sanguine, meaty scents on the nose. The flavors may strike some palates as too intense, brimming with dried red cherry, Indian spice and kalamata olive, bound by energetic acidity and tactile grip.
Aromas of underbrush, black fruit, toast and espresso lead the nose on the blend of Sangiovese and 15% Malvasia Nera. The palate is still resting heavily on its oak, showing coffee, coconut, vanilla and mocha, along with dried black cherry, prune and clove. The raspy tannins need to soften up but the fruit richness is already drying up.
This is a serious, wood-aged wine whose ripe fruits are dominated at the moment by heavy toast flavors. The fruit does offer weight and good potential, making it a structured, dark wine that is beginning to suggest a juicy future. Drink from 2017.
This is a herbal, earthy wine with as many tannins as fruit at this stage. That gives it a dense, dusty texture that seeps into the ripe, sweet plum flavors. With the wood giving an extra push of richness as well as spice, it needs to age. Drink from 2017.
To judge by the weight of the bottle, this is regarded as an important wine by the producer. The wine inside is attractive and fruity, ripe with berry fruits and considerable freshness. The tannins give the power for the bottle, dry and dense at this young stage. Drink from 2017.
Made to celebrate their 30th vintage, the Cazottes have produced a ripe, full-bodied wine that is still smooth and rich. Raspberries and fresh acidity give fruitiness with a delicious juicy aftertaste. Drink this wine soon, from early 2016.
Deep blueberry, prune and dried purple aromas are made even more delicious by hints of bacon fat on this blend of 60% Petite Sirah, 30% Syrah, 9% Mourvèdre and 1% Grenache. The vintner lives in the historic Uvas Valley between Gilroy and Morgan Hill. Purple fruit juiciness is balanced by a sharp licorice edge, framed by judicious acidity and tannins.
Briny aromas of bell pepper, jalapeño and canned pea are green-leaning but not overly vegetal. This has a round mouthfeel and ample body to absorb the wine's acidity, while flavors of celery, bell pepper, lime and tangerine come with a strong grassy accent and a persistent, briny tasting finish.
This is a blend of Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc and Viognier (CSV). From estate vineyards in the Cahors region, it is a young wine, still developing its potentially aromatic character, fragrant acidity and rich pineapple and red apple flavors. Hold this wine and drink from late 2016.
A mix of tropical and citrus aromas is balanced by classic Leyda scents of bell pepper and jalapeño. This is crystal clear and zesty on the tongue, with cutting acidity. Lemon, tangerine and briny notes create a citrusy flavor profile, while the finish is juicy, crisp and cleansing.
Minerally on the start, this white progresses into oaky vanilla and brioche notes with a heightened viscosity midway through, before re-finding its vibrancy at the end. In between expect a full-bodied, fruity expression of the variety highlighted by plenty of ripe apple and apricot.
Rosy cherry and plum aromas turn more rubbery and raisiny as this airs out. Solid, lifted and deep on the palate, this varietal Garnacha deals lightly herbal, floral flavors of plum and cherry cough drop, while the finish is oaky, resiny, raw, scouring and tough. Nothing about this is subtle or elegant, but it is dynamic. Drink through 2020.
This medium-bodied wine is fresh and fruity, but also polished and sophisticated. It smells like raspberries and black plums, then adds chocolate and blackberry in the flavors. Rich and flavorful it also has welcome firm tannins and fruit acidity to keep it lively. Grenache is the leading grape ingredient.
Wildflower and lemon zest brighten this dry, citrusy Pinot Gris. Lip smacking white grapefruit flavors flood the palate, along with a hint of bitter almond. It's a revitalizing white that's ready to drink, but also likely to maintain its fresh, primary flavors through 2017.
This blend is mostly Syrah, with Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon backing it up. Dense, earthy, meaty and lightly roasted on the nose, the palate is mildly tannic, with lively acidity. Roasted, foresty plum and red-berry flavors end short and baked in character.
Vibrant and elegant, this delivers aromas and flavors of crushed red cherry, raspberry, cinnamon-spice and Alpine herbs. Supple tannins and bright acidity provide support. Enjoy through 2018.
Quite foamy when poured, this bubbly from the historic sparkling house offers aromas of apple flesh, ripe pears and lemon-lime soda. It presents straightforward flavors on the palate accented with apple blossoms, while white tuberose florals and a touch of guava trend toward the tropical side of the scale.
Aromas of ripe dark-skinned fruit, spice, underbrush and dried herbs emerge from this blend of Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Petit Verdot. The palate delivers dried black cherries, plum, clove and grilled sage alongside tightly-knit tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
Spicy and still tight, this shows a big-boned style. Penetrating pear fruit flavors are dotted with white pepper, and finished with a hint of water cracker.
Dense aromas of earth, berry fruits, latex and animal fur are a touch challenging at first but balance out with airing. This has a crisp, fresh feel despite coming from a hot year. Lightly herbal, leathery flavors of red currant and wild berry finish oaky, with more than adequate filling.
Subdued aromas of espresso, tobacco, cedar, tilled soil and mature black fruit waft out of the glass. Made entirely with Cabernet Sauvignon, the elegant palate offers raw red currants, dried black cherries, clove and anise alongside silky but rather fleeting tannins.
Old vines of Tinta Francisca have produced a generous, full and concentrated wine. It is packed with forward berry fruits and as well as soft tannins that are finely integrated. The end is fresh, and always fruity.
Made from Sangiovese blended with 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, this opens with aromas of sawdust, oak, exotic spice and a whiff of black currant. The palate displays toasted oak, roasted coffee beans, menthol, ground black pepper and dried black cherries alongside grippy tannins that leave an astringent finish.
Fresh strawberry fruit with a bit of spice makes this an easy choice for warm-weather sipping. Tart, with lemony acidity, it's young and lively. Good as it is on its own, it would make an awesome punch.
Offered in a half-bottle size, this estate Cab-based wine also contains 6% Merlot and 6% Petit Verdot. The blend is crisp, dry and tannic in cranberry, barely ripe cherry and dried currant, swerving savory into dried herb and clove.
Dense and concentrated, this blend of 66% Cabernet Sauvignon, 26% Cabernet Franc and 8% Petit Verdot initially has a subdued nose that eventually reveals prune, alcohol, tobacco and leather aromas. The syrupy palate doles out blackberry extract, fig, sweet spice and soaring alcohol alongside velvety tannins. While some may like the sheer power, the dominant alcohol stunts any complexity, giving it a monolithic quality.
Firm and spicy, this blend of Sangiovese and 10% Merlot opens with aromas of black plum, crushed violet and kitchen spices. The juicy palate delivers ripe black cherry, licorice and clove alongside a backbone of tightly wound but refined tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
The vineyard is in the Eola-Amity Hills AVA, though the label does not indicate it. There is a welcome purity to the fruit expression, pretty cherry flavors with a suggestion of hard candy. Although it has light herb and stem highlights, nothing overshadows the lovely fruit.
A blend of Touriga Nacional and Touriga Franca, this dark-colored, serious wine is concentrated and structured. It offers black fruits, giving a brooding character that's full of power. The aftertaste with its acidity and juicy fruit is elevated and leaves with a lift.
Aside from hints of dark wild raspberries, this entry-level, second-label wine by Norm Yost doesn't offer overt fruit on the nose, instead showing graphite, dark earth and crushed rocks. Earthy flavors of beet juice and juniper show a slightly sour side, making for an interesting wine, if not completely delicious
This exotic white blend starts with citrus and floral aromas and offers a palate of soft lemon curd, orange and white fruit. Rich but with a cutting finish, it's a good food wine for bigger seafood flavors.
Mature berry, underbrush, leather, fennel and a whiff of grilled herb meld together in the glass. The firm, vibrant palate shows ripe wild cherry, black raspberry, licorice, coffee and a balsamic note while bracing, fine-grained tannins provide the framework. Give this a few years to come together. Drink after 2020.
Smooth and appealing, with a smoky edge to the purple plum and berry fruits, this is a flavorful, forward and easy-drinking rendition of what may become Southern Oregon's signature grape. The tannins are silky and the length impressive.
From grapes grown in the Douro Superior region, this is an open delicious fruity and ripe wine that is ready to drink. Its black currant and red berry tastes are balanced by spice, wood aged flavors and a core of tannins. The aftertaste introduces fresh juicy acidity.
Ripe fruit flavors and a delicious spiciness combine to make this full-bodied but not very tannic wine easy to love. It smells like cherries and raspberries, tastes full but not sweet, and has a texture that spreads and softens on the palate like melting chocolate. It's made with 50% Zinfandel and almost equal parts Syrah, Carignane and Petite Sirah.
Resiny oak and mildly stalky berry aromas muscle out cherry and raspberry scents. This feels grabby and clampy, while oaky flavors of mixed berries and baked plum end with coconut-infused oak flavors and notes of raisin and licorice. Drink through 2020.
Aromas of mature black-skinned fruit, blue flower and Oriental spice float out of the glass. The round, full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry jam, licorice and pipe tobacco alongside chewy tannins.
This wine is dark red-violet color to the eye, offering aromas of blackberry, roasted red pepper and juniper berry. It is very smooth on the palate, with flavors of black plum, blackberry, white peach, elderberry and violet. There is a slightly dominant eucalyptus flavor that backs off at the finish, replaced by a fresh cherry juice flavor.
Wild strawberry and a thicket of dense tannin belie a powerfully strong and elusive wine, still very much tightly wound, indicative of the vintage. A portion (35%) of the grapes were whole-cluster pressed, from tight-spaced, low-yielding vines. A little more oak was used than in most of the producer's other wines, helping to impart a spicy finish.
Fresh apple and pear flavors are swathed in fresh herbs and citrus peels in this bristling medium-sweet wine. It's lusciously honeyed but finishes long with honed steely precision.
Raisin and white pepper aromas, ripe fruit, floral and spicy anise flavors and full body add up to a big wine in which the whole-cluster fermentation method can be tasted. The hearty flavors, complexity and firm tannins paint a unique picture, and this bottling makes a dramatic contrast in style from the “regular” Anderson Valley Pinot Noir.
Dark garnet in the glass, this wine has a nose of strawberry, black plum, caramel and smoked meat. It offers a good balance of acidity and tannins, with flavors of blackberry, blueberry, smoked meat, vanilla and mocha. The vanilla flavor is extended on the palate thanks to lingering silky tannins that eventually dissolve in a note of orange zest.
Blue flower, mature plum, licorice, clove, mocha and menthol aromas all come together on this brawny red. The warm, bold palate delivers juicy black cherry, espresso, ground pepper and anisette alongside a backbone of fine-grained tannins. Showing the heat of the vintage, it won't need years to come around. Drink 2018–2028.
This concentrated wine was wood aged for six months, giving the lightest touch of oak along with ripe yellow fruits and a crisp tangy aftertaste. It has a touch of spice along with bright acidity at the end. Drink now.
A blend of three estate-farmed vineyards, this is a velvety-smooth expression of the variety. It conveys a touch more richness and concentration than some of the producer's other wines, at least at the beginning of the glass, when almond and hazelnut rule the day. But then it takes on a lightness toward the lengthy finish, ending in a mix of lemon zest and apple.
This wine features a bouquet of cherry, pomegranate and freshly ground black pepper. It is well-balanced on the palate with flavors of pomegranate, strawberry, mace and anise. Smooth tannins are present into the bright yet lasting finish.
The nose on this appellation blend is full of soft tones of ripe nectarine and pluot, though cut with walnut oil and a citrus edge. It's more pithy in flavor, showing orange bitters, dried apples and more nut oils, slightly oxidative in style.
Planted in 1988, this vineyard 's fruit captures the unique minerality found in this AVA. It leaves an impression of sucking on rock—not a bad thing in a wine. The black-cherry fruit grips the palate with real power and some density, with potent herbal highlights as well. Drink this now through the mid-2020s.
Dark black cherry in color, this wine offers a bouquet of cherry preserves, matchstick and petrol. It is far livelier on the palate than on the nose, featuring flavors of cherry, pomegranate and bell pepper with a light touch of florality. Chewy tannins make their way across the gum and tongues and are all but erased by a final note of orange zest and cranberry.
Dark berry, mocha, toast and cooking spice aromas emerge in the glass. The taut palate offers mature black cherry, coffee and dried herb alongside assertive, fine-grained tannins.
Cherry-berry and vanilla surround a soft, spicy core of high-toned red fruit. Mellowed with age, the tannins linger in perceived sweetness.
Red rose, bright berry and anisette aromas lead the way. The taut palate offers sour cherry, tobacco, clove and chopped herb alongside bracing tannins and brisk acidity.
This brawny, forward wine opens with aromas that recall spirits, steeped plum, roasted coffee bean and menthol. The dense, chewy palate offers black cherry liqueur, licorice, espresso and the warmth of evident alcohol accompanied by brooding tannins. Drink sooner rather than later.
Aromas of rose, red berry, espresso, grilled herb and toast lead the nose. The taut palate offers crunchy red cherry, raspberry, star anise and white pepper alongside tightly wound, assertive tannins. It closes on a note of roasted coffee bean.
Earthy aromas of leather, game, sunbaked earth and mature dark-skinned berry take center stage. The tense palate offers dried black cherry, mocha, espresso licorice and tobacco alongside fresh acidity and close-grained tannins.
Mature dark berry, crushed blue flower, spice and peppermint aromas lead the nose on this structured red. The firm palate offers ripe black cherry, white pepper, cocoa, star anise and a balsamic note accompanied by bracing tannins. Drink 2018–2016.
Cherry and plum aromas are accented by buttery oak, leather and animal notes. Solid in feel with firm tannins, this warm-vintage Tempranillo is ripe, loamy and loaded with berry and cassis flavors. A lightly raisiny finish is friendly and round. Drink through 2019.
Aromas of wild berry, dark spice, menthol and a hint of pressed flower lead the way on this straightforward Barolo. The full-bodied palate offers dark cherry, licorice and dried herb alongside firm, ripe tannins. Drink 2018–2026.
This is strongly marked by new oak on the nose at this stage, suggesting toast, brown sugar and coffee, but fruit comes through on the palate where hints of dark berries, cola, clove and cinnamon mingle. The wine is creamy and lush in texture, with ample weight and a lingering finish of dried fruit, vanilla and mocha. Drink from 2018 to 2025.
One of the most beautiful package designs in the state introduces a fresh and toasty wine that translates this cool, wet vintage into a most delicate and enjoyable bottle of Pinot. Light cranberry and cherry fruit is set in a gently proportional bed of tart acid and pretty oak, 40% new.
Clean, crisp and bright, this was fermented in stainless (with just 10% in neutral wood), and not put through malolactic. The blend is 60/40 Chardonnay/Pinot Noir, yielding fresh fruit flavors of apple and melon that are focused and precise. A streak of ginger runs through racy acidity.
Aromas of mature yellow apple and a whiff of chamomile flower lead the nose. The aromas carry over to the extremely ripe palate along with a hint of acacia and a marked note of bitter almond.
Smoky, toasted oak aromas lead to strong char and butter flavors and a viscous texture that clings to the palate. Subtlety is not one of this wine's virtues, as its outsized flavors stand in stark relief.
A clean nose of citrus paves the way for flavors of grapefruit and Sevilla orange. This wine is soft and pleasing on the palate, but it may be touch tart for some tastes.
With its typical prickle on the tongue, this is a medium sweet wine. It's clean, crisp and citrusy, with sliced apple and orange zest flavors. Drink now.
Lightly spritzy, this tastes of crisp apple and finishes just off-dry. It's deliciously refreshing, bright and tangy. Drink now.
This is a dry sparkling wine with tannins, spice and berry fruit, giving it a deep color. Not an apéritif wine, it's perfect for cutting through rich, oily foods. Drink now.
This is a soft, creamy wine with fruitiness and a yeasty edge. Made from Bical, Arinto and Maria Gomes, it's ready to drink.
This is a soft wine whose herbal character is held in check by a smooth texture. It is bright and crisp, with plenty of citrus and gooseberry flavors as well as intense acidity. The wine is ready to drink.
This white wine is fruity and crisp with a deliciously refreshing herbal edge. Lemon and pink grapefruit are cut by some zingy acidity and finished with a bright aftertaste. Drink now.
Dusty plum and berry aromas are clean. In the mouth, this is hard and wiry. Salty snappy plum flavors dry out and taste a bit like tin on a raw finish.
This yeasty wine is bone-dry, mature and ready to drink, a toasty element having replaced any fruitiness. The aftertaste is crisp and bright.
Buttery aromas and buttery, spicy flavors lend an outgoing personality to this medium-bodied wine. Vanilla and cream flavors add some interest, while the texture is broad and smooth.
A soft mouthfeel and fresh golden delicious apple flavors make this light-bodied wine easy on the palate. It has crisp and clean flavors all the way through.
With hints of minerality typical of any wine from the Dão, this has tight, yeasty notes that contrast with its crisp, bright apple fruit. Drink now.
This wine balances swathes of ripe berry fruit with hints of tannin. It's fruity, full bodied and delicious to drink now. A great barbecue wine.
This is a classic style of Bairrada sparkling wine—a blend of Bical, Maria Gomes and Arinto. Plenty of crisp acidity and soft white fruit flavors balance its yeasty character. Drink now.
Surprisingly shy and reserved in nature, this offers subtle aromas and flavors of apple core and spiced orange peel. Soft and accessible, it's direct and clean, yet short on the finish. Drink now.
A mix of blueberry, plum and animal aromas leads to a wiry, clipped palate fueled by tartaric acid. Lightly salted plum flavors are slightly jammy, while a blueberry note is brought back on the finish.
Bright aromas of tart apple, melon rind and fresh chrysanthemum dance in the bouquet, while the lively, lightweight palate offers notes of white peach and citrus pith. A subtle astringency graces the close. Drink now.
This is a plump, broad southern Rhône white, offering subtle notes of melon, pear and wet stones. Drink it before the end of 2017 while it still retains some freshness.
This dense, rich and ripe varietal Cabernet Sauvignon is aged in new French oak for 19 months. It shows smoked meat and bacon flavors that last into the finish.
Soft hints of peach, verbena and peony grace the delicate nose of this lightweight white. Touches of green banana and pear flesh out the palate, while ample acidity keeps the mouthfeel fresh through the finish. Drink now.
This wine's blend symbolizes the Tarn's halfway position between the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. So it is has the perfumed Syrah and the more structured local Braucol to give a bright fruity wine with some touches of tannin as well as red-berry fruits. Drink now.
A dry wine with a soft texture that suggests a small amount of residual sugar. It is a fruity wine with apricot and ripe pear flavors and a smooth aftertaste that still leaves plenty of room for acidity. Drink now.
Produced in the west of Gascony, with a strong oceanic influence, this Chardonnay is cool, fruity and with bright acidity. It does have a creamy texture that fills out the fruitiness. It is an attractive, ripe wine that is ready to drink.
A wine for early drinking, this is soft, fruity and bright. With red berry flavor and gentle tannins, it's direct and packed with fruitiness. Drink now.
A soft and easy wine with black currant fruit and gentle tannins, this has just enough acidity and structure to hold it together. Spice adds interest on the finish. Drink now.
This gentle blend of Aligoté and Chardonnay shows yellow fruit flavors. It has a crisp edge to its round smoothness. Drink now.
From four estate vineyards, this wine appears to be low in oak and extra crisp in mouthfeel, offering austere apple and citrus elements with a slight metallic edge.
This informal white opens with whiffs of orchard fruit and citrus while the simple palate offers suggestions of pear and pineapple. A hint of bitter almond marks the rather lean abrupt finish.
Pretty floral and apricot aromas brighten savory apple notes on this dry, but intensely honeyed Riesling. Bright and brisk on the palate, with searing lime acidity, it finishes long, with a refreshing spray of green herbs.
The Mark VI (similar to the above Heather's Vineyard) is a sort of reserve reserve, this one from barrels chosen to showcase the most cellar-worthy aspects of the vintage. It succeeds nicely, delivering a solid, firm, tart wine with young raspberry and cherry fruit at its center. The tannins have a lightly herbal, leafy streak, and there's little doubt this will benefit from additional years in the cellar.
This intriguing blend combines the structure of Chardonnay with the crushed tomato vine and cantaloupe aromatics of Sauvignon. The rich palate delivers a lovely depth of ripe apple, creamy lemon, and melon flavors, layered with hints of exotic fruit and spice.
A lovely, fresh, fruit-forward Pinot, it's flush with flavors of plums and cherries as it fills the palate. It gains power and mass with dark, slightly charred flavors of espresso wrapped into the finishing tannins.
This solidly structured wine shows the firm tannins and mineral structure typical of wines from Côte du Py. It has dense black cherry fruits along with sacidity that cuts through the structure. It could age another year, but is worth drinking now.
This rich wine has a dense core of dark, dry tannins. The fruit, still taking its time to come through, is full of dark plum flavors and will soon show a fresher acidity. Wood aging, dark chocolate and a smoky character all bode well for the future. Drink from 2016.
This rich, sophisticated wood-aged wine has complex fruits, structure and tannins. Ripe, juicy black fruits are intertwined with a solidly dry texture, powerful but still elegant. It will repay aging. Drink from 2016.
A rich wine that is made by the Abreu Callado charity foundation. It has dark black currant fruits, big tannins and an elegant feel. With its structure, minerality and ripe, juicy fruitiness, it is finely structured and ageworthy. Drink from 2017.
You can criticize this as being too full-bodied for a Pinot Noir. Some will find it Grenache-like, with its lush, jammy flavors of cherries, raspberries and oak. But what can't be denied is how delicious it is. The fruitiness, acidity and tannins suggest pairing with charbroiled lamb chops or steak. Drink now–2020.
Palmeri has a good history with Syrah, and this 2011 is right up there. With rich, complex blackberry and blueberry jam, cassis, salted grilled beef, black pepper and smoky oak flavors, it is sophisticated enough to drink with upscale fare. It should age well through 2020.
A powerfully tannic wine, full of the mineral texture and dark structure of a fine Douro wine. It has rich berry and plum skin flavors with underlining from acidity. The tannins, still young, promise aging. Drink from 2017.
Already impressive, this wine is rich and packed with tannins and fruit. The structure gives a dry core that is cushioned by the sweet blackberry fruit flavors. The end shows the tannins again, along with fresh acidity, both suggesting aging. Drink from 2016.
Dried herbs accent notes of lemon and apple on this concentrated off-dry Riesling. The palate builds in intensity, with juicy flavors of peach and tangerine glazed with streaks of honey and wax. The finish is long, with bristling lemon-lime acidity.
With a significant proportion of Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend, this is a solid, tannic wine. It is also rich, complex and fruity. Fermentation in open lagares gives extra fruitiness, soft extract and great acidity. Drink from 2017.
A very ripe wine with a velvet texture, cut with acidity and wood aging flavors. There is fine concentration, with delicious, juicy Merlot giving a ripe feel. It presents a fresh aftertaste, with the black currant fruit giving a lift to the more tannic structure. Drink from 2017.
A perfumed wine, it has structured black fruits and a solid texture. It is rich, showing complexity through its tannins along with acidity and fruitiness. Still surprisingly young to taste, it should not be drunk until 2015.
Whiffs of blackberry, bramble and granite seduce throughout this concentrated, brawny Lemberger. The palate is lush, with ripe plum and black cherry flavors anchored by brooding minerality and a bite of firm tannins on the finish. It's lovely now, but should reveal more complexity with 5–7 years in the cellar.
Dark berry, shoe polish and lemony oak are at the center of the bouquet on this blend of Malbec, Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Petit Verdot. The palate feels rich to the point of syrupy, while the flavor profile offers a condensed, jammy mix of wild berries, wood, herbs, chocolate and coffee. Additional herbal notes along with spicy flavors carry a thick finish to its conclusion. Drink through 2018.
Black-plum and apple-skin aromas are fruity and a bit raw. In the mouth, this blend of Cabernet Franc, Syrah, Carmenère and Petit Verdot is full, properly tannic and loamy in feel. Dark-leaning flavors of licorice, peppery spice, chocolate and herbs finish with classic Chilean notes of black olive and tobacco. Drink through 2019.
Still youthful, it shows aromas of fragrant white flowers, stone fruit and pear. The juicy, lively palate delivers golden apples, yellow peach, almond and hints of aromatic herbs alongside fresh acidity. It boasts balance and finesse. Drink now through 2016.
This is a lovely, balanced wine, combining grip, texture and elegant details. It starts with clean fruit flavors of berry and cherry, bringing in delicate notes of root beer, vanilla and clove. There's a suggestion of brine also, the whole delivering marvelous complexity.
An intriguing, well-made wine, it conveys saucy red-fruit aromas that come with notes of raw oak, leather and herbs. It smacks the palate with hard tannins and raw verve, while flavors of vanilla, mocha, licorice and berry fruits finish crisp and woody. Drink through 2017.
This delicious blend of Syrah, Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Petit Verdot opens with aromas of ripe black fruit, berries, tilled soil, blue flower and spice. The concentrated palate delivers fleshy black cherry, red currants, black pepper and graphite alongside smooth tannins. The long finish closes on a licorice note.
Made by a Spanish bodega with grapes from the Portuguese Douro, this is a sophisticated Douro wine that has a smooth, ripe texture underpinned with dry tannins. Now mature, it's very elegant. Drink now.
Right out of the bottle, this wine is tannic and closed. After a while in the glass, it starts to soften, showing mushroom, cola, pomegranate and raspberry flavors, but it's still resistant. Give it until 2018, and it should gradually unfold for another few years afterward.
This sophisticated wine is full of rich, beautifully integrated tropical and citrus fruits enhanced by an elegant use of wood. It feels rich, sumptuous and concentrated, while allowing for good acidity at the end. Drink from 2015.
A big, ripe wine, it shows richness from the superripe grapes. It is bold, full-bodied and packed with juicy black fruits. It's like a fruit bomb, but structure holds it together. Drink from 2015.
At this stage, this wine is dominated by wood. The black fruits underneath will take their time to bring together a wine that will show great perfumes, flavors of mushroom and truffles, and a dense texture. The aftertaste already has some of the right juicy acidity. Drink from 2017.
This wine is just starting out. With its initially austere structure and firm tannins, the juicy fruitiness and mineral character are still waiting to emerge. It will be a serious and structured wine in the next few years, evoking the granite of the Douro. Drink from 2016.
You can call this Pinot thin, or you can call it elusive. While it does show the lean profile of the 2011 vintage, it's quite complex, offering high acid-inspired flavors of raspberry sour candy, chamomile tea and cranberries, plus minerally, dried herb complexities. Drinking through 2020.
Closed cellar aromas burn off to reveal black fruit, baking spices and balsamic notes. The palate is subdued, showing raw cherry-berry, cooking spices and herbs alongside nervous acidity and astringent tannins.
This earthy Barolo has funky sensations of game, meat juices, oak, vanilla, spice and ripe black berry fruit. The warm midpalate and sweet fruit are balanced by tightly packed, astringent tannins that leave the mouth feeling dry. Drink after 2020.
Pale in color, it has pleasing aromas that mix fruit and barrel with notes of cinnamon, cherry and sarsaparilla. The palate is medium bodied with the oak (30% new French and American) getting just a bit out front of the fruit flavors.
Complex and grippy, it offers classic layers of spicy black pepper, clove and red cherry and plum fruit. Not overpowering on the palate or in price, it will pair with flair.
This offers fresh fruit flavors of watermelon and strawberry. Delicate and flavorful, it's perfect for sipping on your porch, deck, boat or simply while picnicking.
Ripe and fragrant, this offers delineated scents of cherry pie filling, raspberry, rose and dillweed. It's lithe and succulent, with polished lines and plenty of charm.
Medium to full in weight, it offers sleek acids and highly buffed tannins. Subdued notes of charred herb, dark cherry and tobacco give character to this blend of 42% Cabernet Franc, 30% Merlot, 28% Petit Verdot.
This is lightly perfumed with green melon, lychee and papaya aromas. The palate is middle of the road in terms of acidity and snap. Flavors of lychee, peach and nectarine are typical of the variety, while the finish is plump and smooth.
Dark and viscous, this blends 65% Cabernet Sauvignon with 26% Merlot and 5% Petit Verdot. All settle into a high percentage of new French oak, which lends the wine a brawny, savory leather mouthfeel. The flavors tend toward olive, black pepper and cedar, a powerhouse in all.
Smooth, earthy, lightly herbal aromas are balanced by fresh red-berry notes. This feels racy and lean in the mouth, with nothing fat or grabby getting in the way of steady raspberry, plum and herbal flavors. A note of olive and leafy green rises up on the finish.
The wines has concentration, while also having rich, smooth fruits that exude blackberries, fresh acidity and just the right amount of wood to give complexity.  It's firm, but ready to drink.
This dark cherry-red wine has aromas of red plums and dried black plums that flow to the palate. An easy drinking wine, with pleasantly tart cherry flavors.
This grape variety originated in Spain and is also popular in the southern Rhône Valley of France. In this bottling, smoky, chocolaty aromas lead to blackberry and dark cherry flavors, a broad, generous texture and moderate tannins. It's rather big in structure but not heavy.
It opens with aromas of forest floor, porcini mushroom and espresso. The straightforward palate offers bright berry, coffee and grilled herbs alongside firm tannins. Drink 2015–2020.
Quara makes good, true Cafayate Torrontés. Aromas of lychee, citrus, tropical fruits and bath oils are vital. This remains solid and clean, with upright acidity. Lime, mango, lychee and banana flavors finish round, with just enough acidity to maintain the wine's character. Drink immediately.
While 2010 was a great vintage in most of Spain, parts of Bierzo had a mildew problem and thus some wines are less than fully ripe. This seems to be a case in point; it's scratchy on the nose, with a sinewy, drawing mouthfeel that's only partly covered up by oak. Prickly berry and black cherry flavors finish tight, with scraping tannins. Drink now with meat or cheese.
Hints of lemon curd and struck flint emerge from they lass, while the palate reveals flavors of apple, pear and citrus. With its pared-back flavors and restrained nature, this medium-bodied Chardonnay should prove versatile at the table. Drink now–2016.
The scents of humus, spiced blackberry and char are deep, delineated and balanced. Fine-grained tannins and lifting acids unfurl across the poised palate, and the long finish concludes with black raspberry and vanilla notes.
This Croatian white has delightful aromas of pineapple, tropical fruits and fresh cut honeycomb. It's round and generous in the mouth, with flavors of guava and lime rind that lead in to the clean, astringent finish.
The somewhat light red-purple color does not mean that this medium-bodied wine lacks flavor. Toasty, smoky, caramel aromas from oak carry over to the bold and almost sweet flavors, powering over moderate raspberry and plum undertones.
This rich wine offers spice and black plum fruit flavors in equal measure. It's certainly ripe, but a fresher character adds lift. Tannins are already well-integrated into this velvet-textured wine. Drink from 2017.
Aromas of cherry, raspberry and a whiff of mint lead to flavors of dried cherry, raspberry and strawberry in this easy quaffing Pinot Noir.
A complex nose emerges as this wine opens up with chalk, soda, lemon and lime pith. The scents go well with the ocean breezes at Deep Sea's tasting room on Santa Barbara's wharf. It's lean on the palate, with lime throughout and a bit of papaya on the end.
The ripe and fruity style typical of Vacheron wines is evident here. Citrus flavors are given a rich fillip by yellow fruits and a rounded, full texture. Touches of minerality and youthful acidity are already well integrated into the body of the wine. Drink in 2015.
Inviting in tropical aromas of guava and pineapple, it smells sweet but drinks dry, balanced in melon and high-toned citrus, just a hint of grass on the finish.
This is a fresh, lemony wine, crisp and steely. A richer element rounds out the tight texture and acidity. Lively and fruity, it will be ready to drink in 2015.
Sweet vanilla, oak, espresso, coconut and plum aromas lead the nose and carry over to the palate. The sugary vanilla and toasted oak flavors mask the Nebbiolo purity, while bracing tannins leave the mouth feeling dried out.
It offers an imprint of spearmint, dill and black cherry fruit, a modicum of tannins and a soft side, the aroma replete in rose petals. On the finish expect a darker influence of tobacco and oak.
Aromas of ripe plum, rose petals, cake spices and toasted oak lead the nose on this structured wine. The rich palate opens with a burst of dark cherry fruit followed by accents of roasted coffee bean, espresso, and vanilla. The succulent midpalate is cut short by astringent wood tannins that leave the mouth feeling dried out.
Winemaker Jeff Fink is unleashing a cross-section of clones in 2012, and this take on Pommard offers delicious aromas of berry-laced crème brûlée with bay leaf. There is a bitterness at first on the tannic palate, and it washes out quickly with tart cranberries.
Very rich aromas of cherry, blueberry syrup and hot blackberry jam-filled pastry greet the nose. So the sour cherry and tart cranberry flavors are surprising on this medium-bodied wine, which also picks up interesting peppery notes into a lingering finish.
The nose on this wine by oil worker-turned-winemaker Ert Sevtap offers lifting aromas of blueberry and mint. The spearmint notes carry to the palate as well, which also shows blackberry fruit and roasted beef meatiness.
A touch of caramelized sugar lingers from nose to finish on this brisk wine, melding into layers of white peach, caramel and cream. It's light in body, but the mouthfeel is surprisingly round and rich. The finish is zesty and bright.
With all of the fruit hailing from Zephyr Ridge Vineyard, this wine is lighter in color, with suggestions of ash, cigar box, vanilla, coffee and red fruit. It's soft in feel, flavorful yet still quite deft. Good acidity backs it all up, finishing warm.
Aromatically intriguing, this carries suggestions of sour cherry, umami and fresh tobacco. The palate brings medium-bodied cranberry and cherry flavors. It doesn't have the tannic structure that this variety is known for but there is still plenty to enjoy.
Prominent streaks of spice, toast and smoke persist amidst tart black cherry and cassis flavors in this full-bodied wine. Pomegranate acidity is bracing on the midpalate, accentuating a slightly brusque finish.
Briary plum and cherry cough-drop aromas give way to a crisp, fairly full palate with chewy tannins. Plum and peppery spice flavors are kept simple, while this finishes with some dark-berry character and a touch of bitterness.
Ripe Cabernet gives this wine a great start in life. Juicy black currant is underpinned by the wood aging and tannins, giving a wine that is fruity while still structured. Drink from 2017.
While the wine has plenty of the tannins typical of 2011 at this stage, it also has ripe fruit, full of blackberry and currant flavors. The balance is already there, giving a potentially rich, juicy and generous wine. Drink from 2017.
Swathes of fresh tarragon lend a green, herbal tone to cassis and black plum flavors in this pretty wine. Penetrating, grippy tannins are jolting on the finish, underlining a tight, brisk finish.
Powerful and structured, this has dense tannins that will always be an important part of the wine. The juicy, fresh fruit gives a perfumed character to the wine and brings out acidity as well as the dry texture. It needs to age, so drink from 2018.
This firm and dry wine is also full of acidity. A juicy start is then given a firm jolt by the tannins, but the complex structure allows plenty of room for the bright fruits. Drink from 2018.
Fresh and juicy, this full-bodied while structured wine comes from the heart of the Entre-deux-Mers region, which gives the fruitiness and blackberry fruit flavors. It will develop quickly and can be drunk from 2016.
This moderately aromatic wine conveys Red Hots, baking spices and red fruit. It's on the lighter side of medium bodied, soft yet full of drawn-out blue-fruit flavors on the finish.
With aromas and flavors reminiscent of apple skin, peach skin, white pepper and pomegranate seed, this tastes crisp, tangy, slightly bitter, and has great bright acidity. It is light to medium bodied and made from 100% whole-cluster-pressed Riesling that was fermented in a combination of older oak barrels and stainless steel vessels.
Toffee, cinnamon apples and a hefty swirl of smoke arise on the nose from the winery's entry-level bottling. The palate shows caramelized pears, nicely bitter lemon rinds and warm, buttered nut toffee note that carries from first sip to the finish.
A blend of 60% Vermentino and 40% Viognier, this presents a delicate fragrance of honeysuckle and stone fruit. The bright palate offers creamy white peach and tangerine, with a candied ginger note on the close.
An unidentified mix of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot sourced from throughout the county, this is a smoky, leathery expression of sanguine black and red fruit that's approachable and easygoing. The finish has a bittersweet note of chicory.
Subdued is a good way to describe this light-bodied white made from Chardonnay, Chenin Blanc and Gewürztraminer. It has subtle aromas of honey and flowers, fresh but quiet peach flavors and a soft texture.
While spry and dry in style, fragrant apricot and orange blossom notes lend flair to this light-bodied wine. Tangerine acidity is bright and concentrated on the palate, leading to a swift, pert finish.
Coming from the cool 2011 vintage this wine offers a blue-fruit profile seldom seen in the state for this variety along with notes of chocolate and coffee. It's elegantly styled with a soft feel, trailing toward the finish.
This concentrated, structured wine has an earthy quality, typical of some Listracs, along with a more juicy, fruity character that's boosted by acidity. Balanced, it will age over the medium-term. Drink from 2017.
Fresh apple aromas and lively citrus flavors make a good combination in this light-bodied, tangy-textured wine. It tastes slightly rounded with sweetness, but comes off clean, crisp and appetizing. The two main components are Sémillon and Chardonnay, with dashes of Sauvignon Blanc and Orange Muscat.
This wine is predominantly Merlot (83%) along with Cabernet Sauvignon (9%) and Syrah (2%) all from Anna Marie Vineyard, with Cabernet Franc from Minnick Hills and Petit Verdot from StoneTree Vineyard. Pleasing aromas suggest blueberry, milk chocolate and high-toned herbs. It's elegantly styled with light blue-fruit flavors, at times seeming a bit faint.
This offers an intriguing mix of ripe Golden Delicious apples and a strong alkalinity characterized by crushed chalk. The palate holds tight to a lime-pith line, proving racy and lean, with just a drizzle of honey. It would be great with shellfish.
Sanguine in cassis, cranberry and wild strawberry, this relatively inexpensive Napa Cab has an herbal edge that suggests elegance and balance. The finish is stamped in oak that lingers on the palate without overwhelming.
The alcohol—19% as labeled—shows prominently on the aromas of this 88% Touriga Nacional and 12% Sauzao single-vineyard wine from Lonesome Springs Ranch Vineyard. Sweet chocolate and dark fruit flavors offer plenty of appeal.
Medium in weight, this offers a richness of plum and medium acidity surrounded by sizable tannin and oak. Cherry, dark currant and leather round out the characteristics, the wine aged in both French and American oak. The price is nice.
This Sangiovese features aromas of blue flower, dark berry and a balsamic note. The extracted palate delivers dried black cherry, ground pepper and espresso alongside bracing tannins that leave a drying, astringent finish.
Lighter in color and 100% varietal, this wine offers high-toned notes of plum, cinnamon stick and licorice. The blue and red fruit flavors are broad in feel with a light squeeze on tannins.
Charred, earthy black-fruit aromas are smoky and power-packed. This feels full yet balanced, with freshness and strong tannins. Ripe berry, prune and oak-spice flavors finish with a note of vanilla and length. For a Crianza from a tough vintage, this is commendable.
This light-bodied wine has aromas of grapefruit and prosciutto, flavors of melon and toasted almond, making it one of the most interesting and complex versions around. Its balance is good, its texture crisp and its finish lingering.
Widely available Rioja Crianzas don't come much better than this. An opening of raspberry and strawberry aromas backed by direct cherry, raspberry and red-plum flavors render this all about fruit and freshness.
This is a serious and satisfying dry wine with bold flavors, great structure and a mouth-filling texture. It is very well balanced in terms of fruit character and displays moderate tannins, good acidity and no excesses. It's easy to imagine on the table with a grilled rib eye.
This is a richer take on the grape, with aromas of baked cherries, pie crust, allspice, nutmeg and a touch of bacon fat. The palate is quite juicy, accessible and action-packed, with roasted pork, cherry jelly, blackberry jam, star anise and baking spice flavors deep into the finish.
Fragrant and fresh, this Grillo opens with alluring scents of acacia flower, beeswax and white stone fruit. The succulent palate offers creamy white peach, juicy nectarine, almond and mineral framed in tangy acidity. A note of chopped herb closes the lingering finish.
Full of yellow fruits, ripe apples and soft acidity, this is a rich wine with hints of spice and also attractive, perfumed acidity. It has a tangy, zesty character that is attractive and refreshing. Drink from 2017.
With some firm structure behind the red fruits, this wine will have a good future. A dry core sustained by the acidity is waiting to burst out and give a ripe, fruity while always fresh wine. Drink from 2018.
With intense acidity, this wine has both good structure and red currant and raspberry fruits. It is bright, fresh and almost crisp in character. In the background, the tannins show the dense texture of the wine. It will need to age, so don't drink before 2019.
From the vineyard once known as Alisos comes this wine, with aromas of soft clove, red cherry and a touch of sage. A strong ginger spice reigns over the palate, which is bitingly acidic, and shows dark strawberry fruit and dark thyme herbs. This wine is still quite wound up, but that acidity will prove mouthwatering for years to come.
Pretty on the nose, with floral notes to go with plum, cherry and minerally aromas. While this is tannic as nails, it's super tasty, with mocha, blackberry and coffee flavors. Hard residual tannins make for a rough exit, but there's enough ripe fruit to make this work. Drink through 2021.
Laser-edged mineral tones cut a crystalline edge through this bristling, honey-kissed Kabinett. Equal parts sweet and tart, it packs a punch of crisp tangerine and lemon refreshment.
Winemakers Mikey Giugni and Michael Brughelli are the first to admit that this is an odd style of wine, but people are digging the pét-nat style. Aromas of sour apple, grass and passion fruit arise while the palate's very tight, bubbles unleash exotic tropical fruits like green papaya and green banana.
Deceptively light and tight when first opened, this wine has flavors and character more in line with Gamay than most Pinots. Tart cranberry and raspberry fruit carries into a tangy finish, with citrus, mineral and herbal highlights.
With a little airing, this wakes up to reveal dark red cherries held in a taut and firm body that nonetheless has a generous core. There is some gentle grip and frank, firm acidity. It's a very honest wine without any baroque frills—but bags of forthright appeal.
Delightfully fun and refreshing, this perlwein, or lightly sparkling white, is Germany's answer to Italian prosecco. Made from Müller-Thurgau grapes, it's gorgeously floral, but with a chalky, earthen tang. Sprightly acidity and a fresh, green touch lends vibrance to a moderately long finish.
This is a tight, fruity wine with high levels of acidity. That is certainly typical of the vintage and brings out very young red currant and berry fruit flavors. Even though the tannins are light, the wine is definitely one to age, so should not be drunk before 2020.
Quince, lemon peel and honeydew make for compatible bedfellows in this no-oak white, which is light and inviting on the palate, with more underlying herbal flourishes than it first lets on. Dry and daring, it'll pair well with all manner of fresh seafood.
This is a nice, full-bodied red with 3% Petit Verdot. Licorice, lavender and peppery leather gather around soft, pliable tannins and meaty blackberry fruit, finding length and breadth along the way.
Tonella has 16% Merlot within, from the estate vineyard around the winery. Cedar, currant and dried herb greet the nose and palate before allowing chalky, dusty tannin to season layers of chocolate and black cherry, staying structured and bright from start to finish.
Dark gold in color, this wine was whole-cluster pressed and fermented for a lengthy six months, providing for a luxuriousness of stone fruit and melon dripping in honey and caramel. It's ripe and fleshy, with a slight voluptuousness. Aged in 50% new French oak for 17 months.
Dense and textural, this immediately displays a strong minerality, in its mouthfeel and racy freshness. It further amplifies the tart, tight fruit flavors of apple and citrus, grapefruit and pineapple.
Orange blossoms, night jasmine, ripe Pink Lady apples and a touch of bubblegum pop on the nose of this bottling from a coastal canyon vineyard behind Cambria. The palate shows a fine-tuned and textural grip, offering similar floral flavors as well as a botanical streak that shows a touch of pine needle and goes deep into the finish.
Delicate white flowers and a spin of lemon peel on the nose start this refined white. The bright fruit on the palate is tropical and exotic, but the minerality gives it lift. Fuller-bodied but poised, the wine has aging potential and a food-friendly character.
Very subtle hints of ripe, red apple hover above the glass. They become more apparent and richer on the slightly spiced palate that also shows hints of pepper and saffron. There is concentration on the palate and ample definition and structure provided by clean, brisk freshness.
Lovely notes of Reineclaude plums play on the nose. The palate is soft but also has echoes of pebble and stone. Fluid and fresh, the wine even shows overtones of white blossom on the palate. It's a lovely, lasting and authentic expression of Alsace.
A certain faint spiciness hovers over everything, recalling honeysuckle. The textured palate is fresh and equally pepper-spiced. This has freshness and verve, a certain ease and tons of lemony crispness. If you wanted to hold a party to welcome summer, this would be the perfect wine.
This bright and fruity Beaujolais-style wine is as light and refreshing as a young wine can possibly be. It delivers a smile-inducing burst of strawberry and cherry fruit—round, ripe and juicy. You absolutely want to drink this sometime in 2016 while all that youthful energy remains.
Winemaker Mike Mooney adds complexity with 16% Cabernet Sauvignon and 8% Merlot on this bottling, which shows blueberries, crushed black rocks and dark chocolate on the nose, but doesn't offer a lot of Cab Francness. The palate does offer some, however, with grippy tannins and dried oregano touches laid across rich black cherry, blueberry, fudge and espresso notes.
This Slovenian Ribolla Gialla has aromas of peach and vanilla, with flavors of freshly baked peach pie, canned apricots and green apple. It is soft on entry, rounded in the mouth and shows good minerality on the finish.
Underbrush, pipe tobacco, blue-flower, berry and star anise aromas unfold in the glass. The firm, elegant palate offers dried cherry, clove, mint and orange peel alongside fine-grained tannins. Drink 2018–2025.
This wine opens with aromas of baked plum, leather, underbrush, grilled herb and a toasted note. The ripe, chewy palate offers raspberry jam, fleshy black cherry, licorice and a hint of vanilla alongside solid tannins. Drink through 2020.
Baked pears, tangerine oil and wet-cement minerality show on the nose of this rich yet balanced wine from one of the region's premiere sites. The palate shows Gala apples, honeysuckle and blood-orange rinds, blending ripeness with grippy tartness.
An estate-grown wine in its second vintage, this comes from the cooler-climate hills of the coast. This plush wine is dark brown in color and brimming in stinky earth—a rich, funky and concentrated expression that's herbal, spicy and shy in raspberry fruit.
Medium bodied and restrained on the palate, this wine offers a mix of caramelized lemon and Gravenstein apple. It ends lengthy with tastes of ginger and lemongrass that leave a refreshing finish.
From vineyards in both Alexander Valley and Bennett Valley, the grapes were fermented in French oak for eight months, a minority of it new. This is a medium-bodied, integrated wine rich in caramel apple and fresh-squeezed tangerine. Brisk and in balance, it finishes with a note of toasted almond.
Vanillla, baking spice and dried herb aromas are at the forefront. The dark-fruit flavors are dense, supported by lively acids and firm but well integrated tannins. It's a delicious example of the variety.
This wine has hints of cedar and coriander, a luxurious, velvety and appropriately tannic texture, and flavors that are ripe and delicious. Its personality seems confident, well balanced and well behaved, but strong and focused.
Aromas of charred earth, toast, ground pepper, mature black-skinned fruit and espresso lead the nose. The big, ripe palate presents licorice, fleshy black cherry, clove and tobacco alongside a tannic backbone.
The blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 35% Merlot and 15% Malbec has well-balanced tannins and scents of black raspberry, vanilla and caramel. Sweet vanilla, cherry pie and blueberries are the predominant tastes.
This blend of 32% Alvarelhão, 31% Souzão, 24% Touriga and 13% Tinta Cão shows baked black cherries, licorice, gingerbread, iron and smashed asphalt on the nose. The palate is soft and rich, with jammy cherry, blueberry and blackberry flavors eloquently spiced by clove, framed by silky tannins and cut with a welcome acidity.
The first of the vintage to be tasted from the region, this bottling is a promising sign. Fresh-cut green apples, Anjou pear skins, honeydew, bubblegum, wet stone and whiffs of cut grass show on the nose. There's lots of verve to the palate, with white pepper, apple skin and slight jalapeño flavors. It's perfect for shellfish and salads.
A ripe and rich wine, this is full of jammy red fruits. The structure is well integrated into the fruits, giving a smooth, ripe wine that's developing attractively. With a juicy, fresh aftertaste, it is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2017.
Aromas of menthol, toast, espresso and mature black-skinned fruit come together on this accessible, full-bodied red. The ripe, chewy palate offers cherries marinated in spirits, blackberry jam, vanilla and a confectionary note alongside velvety tannins. You'll also note the warmth of alcohol on the midpalate.
Intensely tropical aromas extend into the palate of this exuberantly ripe, fruity off-dry Riesling. Hibiscus-nectar sweetness intensifies luscious white peach and melon flavors, but is offset squarely by a dazzling streak of lemony acidity. It's juicy and satisfying through a long finish.
Abundant dried and fresh herb aromas are followed by notes of black currant and blackberry. The palate brings full-feeling black-fruit flavors that provide instant appeal. It's a crowd pleaser.
Dark violet-red in color, this wine has a bouquet of blueberry, brambles and flint. It is soft on entry, with a web of tannins that spreads across the palate. Flavors of cherry preserves, bacon and juniper berry are at play in the mouth, and bright fruit notes and tactile tannins come in waves through the lingering finish.
This blend of 71% Syrah, 16% Grenache, 8% Zinfandel, 3% Petite Sirah and 2% Mourvèdre stands up to Paso blends three times its price. Broad aromas of plum, olallieberry and dried cherry mix with vanilla, dill and herbes de Provence on the nose. The creamy palate conveys boysenberry and blackberry seasoned by lavender and white pepper.
A soft, chewy and smoky vineyard-designate, this wine is defined by a depth and breadth of sizable tannin, black plum and chocolate, celebrating ripeness and voluptuous in a glass.
An expansive, full-bodied and generously rich wine, this features present but integrated oak. Aromas of orange blossom and jasmine rise slowly out of the glass to lighten the experience, polished in bites of green apple and pineapple.
Wild cherry, rose, spice and chopped sage aromas come together on this round, savory wine. The juicy palate offers fleshy black cherry, raspberry, star anise and a coffee note set in a framework of polished tannins. Drink through 2018.
A blend of 85% Sangiovese, 10% Colorino and 5% Canaiolo, this offers pretty aromas of pressed rose, violet, berry, menthol and a whiff of ground cooking spice. The linear palate offers mature black cherry, orange zest, clove, white pepper, licorice and a hint of pipe tobacco alongside firm, fine-grained tannins.
Black fruits, fine herbs and horsehide carry the aromas of this offering. In the mouth, this is firm and well built, with integrated tannins. Savory flavors of soy sauce and roast plum share space with bolder, riper cherry notes, while a warm, earthy finish tastes of roasted plum and berry. Drink through 2021.
Mostly Sangiovese with 5% Colorino and made by refermenting with partially dried grapes, this wine offers aromas of dried plum, clove, scorched earth and a balsamic note. The concentrated palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, licorice and a note of ground pepper that lead to a firm finish.
Luminous and fresh, this opens with aromas of red berry, violet, chopped herb and a whiff of baking spice. The vibrant, linear palate offers red cherry, strawberry, white pepper and star anise alongside racy acidity and polished tannins. Enjoy through 2018.
Pressed violet, perfumed berry and a hint of baking spice aromas unfold on this sleek, savory red. The medium-bodied palate delivers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon, clove and star anise alongside firm, polished tannins. Drink through 2021.
This is made from 92% Cabernet Sauvignon and 8% Pinot Noir, an interesting and fulfilling combination thats robust on the palate. Pinkish-orange in color, it's both tangy and weighty, finishing dry in orange zest.
Black-olive tapenade is the star of this show, along with fig, black currant and cedar. Bittersweet cocoa accents the powerful tannin and integrated oak, before finishing velvety smooth.
There is a toasty aroma in this wine that comes from a premier cru next door to Chassagne-Montrachet. This toastiness continues into a spicy, toasty note. A good sense of fruitiness gives the wine a ripe and rich character that will allow it to mature well. Drink from 2017.
Lusciously ripe mango and lychee aromas introduce this unusually sprightly Gewürztraminer. Perfumed and delicately sweet, but not at all cloying, it's vivacious and thirst quenching, finishing on a enticingly astringent tea-leaf note. Drink now through 2018.
From the cool plains of the Petaluma Gap, this wine shines in violet and blueberry crumble aromas. Light bodied, it reveals deeper, darker pepper steak-like flavors as it opens, finishing on an elegant aftertaste of clove.
Usually the bigger, more opulent of the Kumeu River Chardonnays, the 2015 version of the Coddington is medium to full in weight, but strikingly focused and vibrant. Bacony smoke notes frame white peach flavors, finishing long.
This premium cuvée from Eugénie is packed both with superripe fruit and layers of wood aging flavors. The fruit of this impressive wine is still pushing through the dark tannins that give a dry dusty edge to the wine. It is powerful and rich and should age. Drink from 2020.
Vines up to 50-years-old are the basis of this rich and tannic wine. While it does have some age, it still has a way to go. Big bold tannins show strongly along with ripe black-plum skins. The wood aging has given this wine a smooth elegant edge that contrasts with the still young fruitiness. Drink from 2021.
Rich red cherry, rhubarb and alpine strawberry aromas meet rust and shaved licorice on the nose of this beautiful bottling from the Parker family's cool-climate vineyard. It's deceptively light on the palate, with airy flavors that intensify to exotic cherry, mulberry, tea leaf and maduro cigar, framed by firm, structured tannins. Drink 2020–2024.
This wine comes from one of the producer's oldest blocks in Carneros, where grapes retain vibrant acidity. Reduced on the nose, it opens up into a mix of fennel, preserved lemon and almond aromas that follow through on the steely palate with grace.
From a new, small producer, this vibrantly peppery wine captures the power and grace the variety is capable of when grown on the far reaches of the coast. That peppery quality follows through on the palate, buoyed by juicy acidity and smoothly layered blackberry, tobacco and tea flavors. Exquisitely made and worth seeking out.
The biggest production and lowest priced of all the winery's vineyard designates, this is sexy, substantial and one of the best offerings from any winery sourcing fruit from this exceptional vineyard. A riot of berries, plums and Asian spices fills the mouth—well-integrated, layered and detailed right on through the extended finish. A light dusting of cocoa powder lingers and invites the next sip.
Vinified by the former Margerum winemaker (who now works for Morgan Winery), this bottling from one of the appellation's most exciting vineyards is chock-full of baked red cherry, vanilla, clove and gravel aromas. Though light and bright in body, the palate packs intriguing flavors, from raspberry and rose petal to dried fennel and dill.
Wonderfully aromatic fruit rises from the glass: blueberry with cinnamon and violet overtones, hints of plum and pepper and a pervasive elderberry note. This is a wonderfully elegant medium-bodied wine with a distinct but unobtrusive structure that lets the fruit speak clearly and honestly. Fresh and elegant now, it's sure to develop and evolve. Drink now–2025.
From dry-farmed estate vines, this savory, classically styled red offers nuances of cedar, dried herb and peppercorn. It's aromatically reminiscent of the forest that surrounds the estate, delivering a balanced landscape of subtle, elegant flavor and length.
The floral, vanilla tone of new oak marries with ripe, red cherry notes in this wine, supported by clove and violet highlights. It's young and taut on the palate, its fine tannins still firm and crunchy, needing time to evolve and relax. Pure fruit and the pervasive freshness promise a bright future. Drink 2019–2025.
This wine offers aromas of herb, tobacco, barrel spice and plum. The palate brings plush rich textured plum flavors, showing a beautiful sense of purity along with a crazy-long finish. It's a shamelessly delicious but still impeccably balanced wine that is nearly impossible to put down.
Ripe but subtle aromas of aged balsamic vinegar, blackberry, baked plum and vanilla are alluring and feed into a flush layered palate. Spicy black plum and berry flavors are just rustic and toasty enough, while this blend of 85% Cabernet Sauvignon with Cab Franc and Merlot tastes peppery, deep, a touch hot and on the money. Drink from 2018–2026.
Envoy is Spy Valley's top range of bottlings. In this case, it's a single-vineyard wine that's fermented and matured in oak for 11 months. It's medium-bodied and silky in texture, with distinctive fumé notes, hints of struck match, and layers of passion fruit and grapefruit flavors. Dry, austere and long on the finish, it's a compelling example of New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc.
This wine shows a fine balance between sweetness (74 g/L) and acidity, reminiscent of a spätlese style. Striking scents of crushed stone, beeswax and lime burst from the glass, while the flavors combine peach and citrus notes. The finish shines, marrying sugar and acid into a long, tongue-tingling finale.
This blend of 35% Chardonnay, 35% Pinot Blanc and 30% Pinot Gris from La Encantada Vineyard is a stunner, starting with its crystalline brilliance in the glass. Lime blossom, pomelo, baking soda and lanolin aromas lead into a grippy palate of green apple, chalk and wet cement. Extremely tense and compelling.
This cuvée, says winemaker Josh Bergström, is crafted to compete with village Burgundies. Principally Temperance Hill fruit, it more than does the job, with great mouthfeel, and a succulent tangy ripe mix of citrus and stone fruits. There's a lick of caramel apple coming through also, and the wine is bursting with bright flavors across the board.
Actress Challen Cates got interested in wine when her father ran Tantara Winery. She's since hired winemaker Kevin Law to deliver great bottlings like this one. It's redolent with sarsaparilla, red plum, mulberry and cola, and shows deft balance on the palate, combining plum, cherry, licorice and ginger flavors.
Aromas of roasted earth, leather and fine oak are more out-front than berry fruit, and that's the way it should be for a Gran Reserva. This feels bold, lively and still a touch bumpy. Chocolaty oak and vanilla notes rest comfortably on top of ripe berry and black-plum flavors, while the finish is persistently earthy and chocolaty. Drink through 2028.
A ripe fruity set of berry and cassis aromas shows a slight hint of raisin. This is a stacked saturated wine with raw tannins and plenty of power. Blackberry and earthy notes finish stout and compact: this doesn't vary or waver on the back end. Best from 2019–2026.
A more intense version of Carraovejas's Reserva from 2012, this also includes more than 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. Thus it's spicy and prickly on the nose, with road tar and peppery notes in addition to potent berry fruit. A rich saturated rumbling palate deals coffee, toast, blackberry and herbal flavors that are much like the Reserva but more amplified. A charred finish has a lemony ring to it. Drink from 2020 through 2030.
Dominated by the local Mourvèdre grapes, this is a ripe and complex wine. Its acidity is integrated with rich yellow fruits, spice and perfume. The wine is floral, poised and very stylish. Drink from late 2017.
Savory in aroma, richly fruity and accented with butter and vanilla, this wine has a complete package of flavors and an expert balance to accompany its creamy viscosity. It combines lightly toasty, earthy notes with generous pear and citrus flavors in a way that's unusual and compelling. Best after 2020.
Forest floor, leather, tilled soil, ripe berry and balsam are some of the aromas you'll find in this delicious red. The smooth, dense palate delivers blackberry jam, espresso, licorice and ground pepper flavors, blanketed with soft, silky tannins. Tobacco and graphite notes linger on the finish. Drink through 2020.
Juicy strawberry and red plum aromas meet cinnamon, sassafras and earthy scents in this bottling from winemaker Colin Murphy. Beautiful layers of sour cherry combine with dried fennel, wild mint, thyme and rose petal flavors on the palate, which finishes clean and crisp.
A blend of fruit from Watermill, Funk, Lewis and Anna Marie vineyards, the aromas bring vibrant notes of flowers, ham hock, berry, tapenade, herb and ember. The palate is plush yet elegant and silky in feel, showing an exquisite mix of fruit and savory flavors along with outrageous hang time on the finish. It shows a lot of subtlety.
This wine's dried pear, hay and hayflower scents create an immediate impression of richness. The palate underlines all of these generous flavors with a unique, streamlined freshness that illuminates. This is what happens when good Grüner Veltliner benefits from a little bottle age: Its herbal, lifted allure comes to the fore. Savor this.
This wine's fresh, ripe red cherry and aromatic strawberry touches make for an inviting nose. The palate shows the same intense primary fruit, bolstered by freshness and a fine, filigreed structure. Its supple, pure fruit makes it very enjoyable now, but it's sure to evolve further with bottle age. Drink now–2025.
From the vineyard planted by the Pisoni and Franscioni families, this wine delivers bright raspberry and strawberry aromas with sweet star anise spice. The medium-bodied palate is lively and boisterous, with ripe cranberry, tangy red plum skin and sour cherry flavors, accented with a helping of dried herbs.
Firm and focused, this lightly spiced effort supports its tart cherry fruit with ample acidity. Hints of toasted coconut build in the finish. A few more years of bottle age should bring further integration.
A striking shade of amber/orange, this soft and fruity wine is open and loose knit, with broad flavors of mature, slightly oxidized tree fruits, plus lightly spicy notes of cinnamon and baking spices. It's very well made, but well apart from any standard approach.
A delicate streak of honeycomb gilds layers of yellow peaches, apples and tangerines in this off-dry Riesling. Its concentrated fruitiness is lip smacking, but it's also quite elegant, reverberating long on a steely strike of acidity and minerality. Drink now through 2020.
Mature black fruit, toast and spice aromas lead the nose. The firm palate is still tightly wound, offering baked black cherry, licorice and espresso balanced by youthfully assertive, taut tannins. Drink after 2019.
Crushed rose, pressed violet, perfumed berry, sage and a balsamic note are just some of the aromas you'll find on this full-bodied red. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, black pepper and licorice alongside tightly knit tannins and the subtle warmth of alcohol. Give it a few more years to come together. Drink 2018–2016.
A nose of wild blackberry and brambles lays the groundwork for a tender dance of fruit and herbal flavors, especially blackberry, pomegranate, eucalyptus and fennel bulb. Mouth-coating tannins dissipate on the finish, joined by a burst of tart pomegranate.
Produced from vines grown in a boulder and fossil strewn vineyard, this is a rich smoky wine. It has a deep color from the Alicante Bouschet in the blend, with firm tannins and dark juicy plum skin flavors. It's going to be a ripe rich wine as it develops. Drink from 2017.
This lovely wine captures the floral, perfumed essence of the grape in a restrained, sippable style. It's dry and crisp, with lemony fruit and the delicate sensation that you are drinking fresh flowers.
This opens with earthy aromas of scorched earth, ripe berry, leather and a funky whiff of game. The full-bodied palate offers mature black cherry, black raspberry, truffle, grilled sage, ground pepper and a hint of tobacco alongside youthfully assertive, solid tannins. Drink after 2018.
Root beer, cola nut, black cherry, black raspberry and anise seed combine for an exciting nose on this bottling from a winery near Morgan Hill. The mouthfeel is full, with graphite and lively fennel-bulb spice mixing with blackberry fruit and an earthy elegance on the pleasing palate.
Juicy succulent tangerine and yellow peach flavors meld on the palate of this forward fruity off-dry wine. On first taste, it's quite straightforward, but added attention reveals glimmers of spice, saffron and mineral complexities. Drink now through 2024.
Situated in the center of the premier crus of Puligny, Champgains produces an elegant, textured wine. This bottling, with the warmth of 2013 behind it, is fragrant with white fruits and has a soft aftertaste. It needs to age to bring it out its more complex character, so wait until 2018.
With its appealing toast and fruit aromas, this is a rich wine. It does keep plenty of steely texture while allowing the yellow fruits, ripe pear and toast to shine. In style it hovers halfway between the ripe, buttery Meursault of the past and the crisper style of today, a fine compromise and ready to drink now.
A minuscule amount of this wine is made, coming from 45-year-old vines. Ripe, dense and dusty red and black berries combine against soft, approachable layers of integrated tannin and oak, finishing with leather and cigar.
Aromas of pressed rose, dried berry, leather, chopped herb, cinnamon and a balsamic note emerge in the glass. The subtle palate delivers dried black cherry, black raspberry, licorice and a hint of tobacco alongside firm, ripe tannins. Enjoy sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Aromas of mature black plum, espresso, wild rose and spice emerge on this full-bodied red. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, menthol, mint, white pepper, well-integrated oak and licorice alongside fine-grained tannins.
Pressed rose petal, red berry, chopped herb and a whiff of exotic spice come together on this elegantly structured red. The medium-bodied palate offers juicy wild cherry, crushed raspberry, ground pepper and anise alongside firm, polished tannins. Drink 2017–2023.
The nose is initially rather closed but eventually reveals dark berry, blue flower and brown baking spice. The ripe palate offers mature black cherry, coffee, cocoa, star anise and chopped sage alongside tightly packed tannins. Give this another two or three years to let the tannins unfurl, then enjoy.
Rose, red berry, baked earth, forest floor and grilled herb aromas lead the nose while the firm palate offers dried black cherry, cake spice and anise. Firm, fine-grained tannins provide the backbone. Drink 2018–2026.
Offering aromas of black cherry and green pepper with a whiff of matchstick, this wine has flavors of black cherry, raspberry, smoked meat, mace and green tea. There is a good yin and yang of fruit and savory flavors, while chewy tannins wane at the first sign of orange zest on the bright finish.
Blackberry and leather pouch jump from the glass from this full-bodied wine that stays light on its feet despite the generous ripeness. Cinnamon, black pepper and black licorice round out the flavors, finishing soft and with length.
Although this wine is listed as a white blend, the producer says the variety is Vernaccia, not found often in California. Light in alcohol and approach, it opens in a bouquet of waxy apple and Meyer lemon, followed by a medium-powered palate of pear. The finish is crisp and lean.
This pale-colored rosé is made from Chardonnay with the addition of Pinot Noir still wine to give the color. It is fresh and crisp, offering a lively mousse with attractive flavors of raspberry and fresh red currants. With its refreshing acidity, it is ready to drink.
Aromas of dark berry, tilled soil, underbrush and espresso lead the nose while the taut palate offers sour cherry, sage, white pepper and star anise. It's still tightly wound and nervous, with bracing tannins. Drink 2019–2029.
Aromas of oak extract, toast, red berry and espresso wrap around this structured wine. The firm palate offers up sour cherry, ground pepper and licorice alongside assertive, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2018–2028.
Dark plum and milk chocolate are the stars of this chalky, soft wine, almost entirely varietal, with a splash of Petit Verdot. Integrated oak helps make it approachable and fruit-forward, while the finish is subtle in fireplace smoke.
In this blend, Cabernet Sauvignon was co-fermented with Petite Sirah, with 70% of the grapes grown in the Napa Valley. There's a compelling richness of earthy truffle and red berry in the wine, supported in full-bodied breadth by a grip of tannin. Bennett Valley Syrah and Dry Creek Merlot also figure into the mix.
The regular bottling from the estate vineyard takes the spotlight in 2013, with a lightness and delicacy that in no way means it is simple or insubstantial. There's much to admire, from the silky cherry fruit to the dusty traces of sandalwood, saffron and butter brickle.
All Pinot Noir, fermented in neutral oak and put through partial malolactic, this belongs in the rosé category. A pretty, pale-copper color, it offers a pleasing toasted-cracker frame around stone fruit and supple acids. Drink this chilled to white wine temperature.
This blend of 71% Roussanne, 21% Grenache Blanc and 8% Picpoul Blanc offers cut Meyer lemon, tangerine and pink-grapefruit aromas on the nose, along with the promise of a creamy palate. Instead, the palate is quite tight and restrained, starting tart but opening toward lemon rinds and pear flesh, and wiping up clean on the finish.
Still young, the wine is very mineral, smoky and tight, with considerable structure and concentration. The apple and citrus fruits are attractive, although almost a sideshow compared with the texture of the wine. Drink from 2017.
Creamy and lush, this offers currents of tropical coconut complemented by floral gardenia and pear. Made in a fuller style than some of the winery's other vineyard-specific wines, the generosity of fruit is expertly offset by searingly pleasant acidity, sustaining it sip after sip.
From winemaker Bryan Kane, who also makes the Howell Mountain Vineyards' wines, comes this tiny-production Cabernet Sauvignon from two separate Howell Mountain sources. A delight in black plum, licorice and peppery leather, it's soft and complex. Boysenberry highlights the fruit components, while the finish is deftly marked by wild vanilla.
Pineapple, candied apple and a touch of guava jelly on toast achieve great aromatic balance on a rare Rancho Santa Rosa Chardonnay. The flavors are lush, not racy, and evolve in a mellow fashion, from apple to nectarine and then papaya.
This is a finely perfumed wine, full of ripe Castelão grapes. It has a smooth, polished feeling from the wood aging, yet still allows plenty of room for a dense black-fruit character. It will need to age and will be best after 2016.
Soft and rich, this warm, rounded wine has concentrated fruitiness along with a more tense mineral structure. Its pink grapefruit, ripe melon and zesty lemon flavors combine to give a wine that is only just setting out. Drink from 2018.
A truly aromatic Riesling that has a wonderful series of fruit and spice perfumes. It's ripe and full in the mouth, offering a strongly mineral edge as well as rich apple and citrus. Textured and still very tangy, the complex wine needs to age, so drink from 2017.
Fronholz is from a single vineyard, a heady, perfumed wine with ripe, smooth undertones. While there is plenty of acidity, it's the opulent, ripe texture that comes right up front. A light touch of honey and melon roundness give a creamy aftertaste. Drink now, but better from 2017.
This is still young, a tight wine with nervy acidity and very fresh fruitiness. A strongly mineral character from the chalk soil adds to the sense of dry, steeliness. It still needs to age, so drink from 2017.
This concentrated wine has weight and richness while also showing a firm, very mineral and tight texture. The green fruits, aromatic red currants and tangy zest are partnered by young and exuberant freshness. It needs a few years to show its paces, so drink from 2018.
Aged for 14 months in oak, this is a rich, concentrated and dense yet smooth wine. Licorice and cassis combine, with some bitterness on the firm palate. Give it time for the tannins to mellow and harmonize a bit further; drink after 2016.
Rich while also structured, this is beginning to be delicious. Acidity comes from the black currant fruits while the structure shows dense tannins and wood-aging flavors. The wine is still young and prepared for a long haul, so don't drink before 2018.
This is the second wine of Château Labégorce. It has much of the elegance of the top wine with firm tannins and generous fruits kept in stylish proportion. Black currant and berry fruits lie under the dark, dry exterior. The wine is dense, needing several years' aging. Drink from 2018.
This single-vineyard offering opens with aromas of blue flower, tilled soil, ripe berry, balsamic notes and a hint of leather. The palate is still young and needs time to develop fully but already delivers layers of dark cherry, licorice, grilled herb and black pepper alongside brooding tannins. Drink 2016–2026.
Lovely fragrances suggest wild berry, red flower, moist earth and sweet baking spices. The palate delivers juicy black cherry layered with notes of white pepper, cinnamon and licorice supported by a tight framework of youthfully feisty tannins that need time to tame. Drink 2016–2024.
Made from 100% Syrah and aged in half new French oak, this brawny Syrah hails from a vineyard known for its mix of power and finesse. Sanguine and smoky, the fruit leans toward blueberry and the texture to leather, a streak of graphite in the background. Tannins are firm and sizable, with a balanced finish.
This is woody, silky, and balanced between tones of tobacco leaf and herb and a swath of dark leather. It's high-toned and elegant, showcasing the softer side of Cabernet from a cool vintage, with a lengthy, memorable finish.
Just under 16% alcohol, this nonetheless displays lush and pure flavors of blueberry and black cherry, dusted with cinnamon and sandalwood. The concentration is exceptional.
In the ownership of the Cálem family since the 19th century, Sagrado produces firmly structured wines. This dark and dense example is only just ready to drink. It is a powerful and juicy wine, full of opulent black fruits that are balanced by acidity.
This Cabernet-based blend offers lovely black cherry flavors and scents of violet, with a hint of licorice and substantial, ripe tannins on the palate. It can age for at least another 6–8 years, though it's drinking quite nicely already.
Blueberry, dried lilac, crushed violet and black pepper form a classic nose on this Merlot-led Bordeaux blend from Paso Robles' celebrated Westside. The well-integrated, complex palate features fruit, herbs, spice and tar, as if each one plays back-to-back solos.
As per usual, Purple Angel is a full-force experience. Hailing from a warm year, this is dense and purple in color, as it should be. Aromas of graphite, oak, tobacco and black fruit set up a jammy, full palate with saturated flavors of spice-laden blueberry and boysenberry. Finishing notes of tobacco, herb and oak cement this big-boned wine's ripe, beefy status. Drink through 2018.
This attention-grabbing debut Chardonnay comes from a new sister winery to Roederer Estate in Mendocino County. It shows a vivid yellow-gold color, butterscotch and hazelnut aromas, butter and bosc pear flavors and tasty bread dough accents. Rich and full in flavor, it's sleek in texture, but not too full-bodied.
A fine,  wood-aged wine from the Dão's star white grape, it gives yellow fruit tones of apricot and peach, with toast and lees flavors providing a rich, full-bodied structure. The acidity cuts right through the palate, bringing out a lively, fresh aftertaste. Drink now, but the wine will be better in 2015.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon made in small amounts from multiple vineyards, including Beckstoffer Missouri Hopper in Oakville and the Somerston Vineyard on the eastern edges of the Napa Valley. Rich and concentrated in black plum and berry, this is a supple wine that's highlighted by a seasoning of dusty tannins and coconut shavings. The finish is awash in chocolate and cinnamon.
With no new oak, La Sereinité is indeed serene, textured and round with vibrant acidity. The aromatics do the talking first, inviting one in with nuanced white peach, orange blossom and lime before the palate develops over time into richer, fuller flavors of crème brûlée. Throughout, the wine is balanced and expressive.
Fresh, brambly raspberry and cherry open this wine that's structured in firm tannins and ripe, lingering layers of tobacco and clove. The Cabernet is blended with smaller amounts of Malbec and Petit Verdot. This one is enjoyable now, with a long and clean finish, but it will also cellar well through 2022.
A fine blend of the classic Douro grapes gives a complex and dark wine that's firm in tannin but also offers ample fruity richness. The wood aging has started the process of smoothing the tannins, working towards a ripe, full-bodied wine. Drink from 2016.
From one of the most celebrated vineyards in Barbaresco, this structured wine offers aromas of mature black fruit accented with whiffs of balsamic herbs and new leather. The palate delivers crushed black cherry and rasberry layered with notes of black pepper, licorice and menthol alongside assertive tannins. It needs time to unfold and develop. Drink 2016–2026.
This starts out smooth and rounded and then begins to develop a drier, firmer character. Putting the flattering richness and the structure together and the wine is both rich and solid, with black currant fruits vying with a dry core. It still needs time; drink from 2017.
This warm, ripe wine is open and ready to drink. With its bold red fruit and generous, well-integrated tannins, it's made for barbecues. Drink now.
A lovely flinty character graces the yellow apple, peach and orange cream aromas on the nose of this friendly wine. It's quite round and mouthfilling, with a prevailing smoky flavor on the palate that's reminiscent of baked apple with bacon crumble. Drink now.
A very pale, watery straw color, this is soft and low in intensity, with faint aromas and flavors of citrus pith and fresh grass. The palate is thin and light, followed by a short, brisk finish. Drink now.
Like the hyperexpensive Cuvée à Tempo, Pegau's 2015 Cuvée Reservée has a slightly bitter edge to the finish. Otherwise, it shows subtle pineapple, anise and white gumdrop notes and medium body.
Eight years down the line and this Malbec shows the flaws caused by a harvest marred by freezes. This smells like a mix of green bean and jammy boysenberry. The palate feels saturated but soupy, with outsize acidity. Green-herb flavors mix with baked plum and blueberry, while the finish feels sticky, tannic and heavy.
Scents of green apple and plum lead the bouquet, with a strong lime-pith note that carries through to the palate. The texture is soft and somewhat flat on the midpalate, but ample acidity and a pleasant astringency help to lift the close. Drink now.
Reduced on the nose, this wine has a nuttiness and a petrol-like quality that colors its otherwise thin dried plum flavor. Low in oak, it will pair well with traditional Italian fare.
This is a crisp, lightly perfumed wine with attractive apple acidity and touches of grapefruit. The texture is soft, with a bright aftertaste. Drink now.
This widely available white is unfussy and medium bodied, with toasted oak and baked apple flavors, brightened by a squeeze of lemon.
This range of wines comes from different regions of the southwest. The white comes from Gascony and is typical local blend. It is crisp and fruity with a soft texture from the ripe Colombard. There is a light dancing character to this lively, fruity wine. Drink now.
This is an easygoing fruity wine. It has soft tannins and bright juicy red fruits. The structure is just right to give the wine its shape along with the acidity and generous aftertaste. Drink now.
This is one of several wines from this producer that are created to give lie to the tannic Malbec. This is soft, ripe and full of the young fruitiness that demands to be drunk now.
This wine starts out a bit reduced, along with aromas of melon and red apple. It drinks a hair off dry, with a blend of stone-fruit and tropical flavors.
Blended with less than a handful of Petite Sirah, this wine is thick and ultraripe, showing dense chocolate and plum sauce flavors, accented with soy.
A soft and ripe wine with spicy red fruit flavors cushioned by a smooth texture, this has well-embedded tannins and can be drunk young.
Soft and smooth, this is a ripe and creamy wine. It has light acidity, pineapple and apricot flavors and a rounded aftertaste. Drink now.
Aromas of vanilla and wood spice lead to elegant, somewhat dried out and dilute fruit flavors, followed by a short finish.
Pine notes and an aroma akin to floor polish make for an iffy start. This carries a slight chemical flavor as it moves along, while honey and brown-sugar notes sweeten things up. A chunky, obtuse finish feels sticky due to mild acidity.
Hints of nut and spice on the nose lift flatter tones of pressed apple and pear in the palate of this medium-bodied white. Soft lemonade acidity brightens the finish.
Dusty, generic plum and berry aromas are highly regular. This Malbec is chunky in feel, without much precision. Oaky buttery slightly greasy berry flavors finish hot and creamy, with little to no elegance or cut.
Round and pillowy in feel, this is a simple wine, offering modest melon and pineapple fruit. Drink it over the next few months.
A highly unusual blend of Burdin, a rare French hybrid, and Chambourcin grapes, this red wine offers delicate maraschino-cherry and berry flavors. It's a slightly fragile wine but whiffs of tobacco and garden soil lend complexity. The finish lingers on tart red fruit flavors and a hint of tannin.
The 12 months of wood aging has left its mark on this wine, giving it a spicy burnt character. That makes it tough and unlikely to broaden out. It will likely remain dry and firm.
Made to be drunk young, this wine gives a burst of ripe red fruit. The tannins are soft and open, balanced with acidity. The aftertaste is smooth and generous. Drink now.
Named for the Servite convent in the town of Borba, this fresh, crisp and tangy wine is citric, with almond and apple overtones. It's young, fruity and made for immediate consumption.
A typical Douro blend of Touriga Nacional, Tinta Roriz and Tinta Barroca, this wine is all about bright, crisp fruit. Black and red currant flavors come with tight acidity and a juicy character. Tightly wound now, it needs a few more months to calm down. Drink from 2018.
A blend of Chardonnay, Garganega and Sauvignon, this has aromas of peach and golden apple. The simple palate offers pineapple and banana alongside bright acidity. Enjoy soon.
An intriguing blend of grapes with both Bordeaux and Gaillac origins has produced a wine that has a softly herbal character as well as richer white stone fruits and an attractive perfume. It is a pretty wine, ready to drink and very fruity.
According to legend, the Baron of Figuiera got his foot stuck in the stirrup while riding one day. He promised that where his horse stopped, he would build a chapel, and that's where this 2,100 foot high, cool-climate vineyard is today. The wine is crisp and fresh, with attractive citrus notes and plenty of refreshing acidity. Drink now.
A large production offering, this white is simple and direct in its expression of the variety, remaining steely and low in oak on the palate, with a depth of green apple and melon fruit.
Swathes of fresh tarragon lend a green, herbal tone to cassis and black plum flavors in this pretty wine. Penetrating, grippy tannins are jolting on the finish, underlining a tight, brisk finish.
Powerful and structured, this has dense tannins that will always be an important part of the wine. The juicy, fresh fruit gives a perfumed character to the wine and brings out acidity as well as the dry texture. It needs to age, so drink from 2018.
This firm and dry wine is also full of acidity. A juicy start is then given a firm jolt by the tannins, but the complex structure allows plenty of room for the bright fruits. Drink from 2018.
Fresh and juicy, this full-bodied while structured wine comes from the heart of the Entre-deux-Mers region, which gives the fruitiness and blackberry fruit flavors. It will develop quickly and can be drunk from 2016.
This moderately aromatic wine conveys Red Hots, baking spices and red fruit. It's on the lighter side of medium bodied, soft yet full of drawn-out blue-fruit flavors on the finish.
With aromas and flavors reminiscent of apple skin, peach skin, white pepper and pomegranate seed, this tastes crisp, tangy, slightly bitter, and has great bright acidity. It is light to medium bodied and made from 100% whole-cluster-pressed Riesling that was fermented in a combination of older oak barrels and stainless steel vessels.
Toffee, cinnamon apples and a hefty swirl of smoke arise on the nose from the winery's entry-level bottling. The palate shows caramelized pears, nicely bitter lemon rinds and warm, buttered nut toffee note that carries from first sip to the finish.
Blended with 10% Cabernet Franc and 5% Cabernet Sauvignon, this offers notes of herbs, ground cranberries and woodspice. Flavors are jammy with an astringent squeeze to the tannins.
Aromas of underbrush, menthol and a whiff of cellar floor carry over to the palate, along with dried cherry and licorice. Astringent tannins provide support.
This offers appealing notes of cranberry, cherry and orange peel along with a kiss of vanilla. It's tart and fresh in style with puckering fruit flavors—perfect for the dinner table.
Aromas of dark berry, clove, bell pepper and cedar take shape in the glass. The tightly wound palate delivers dried black cherry, espresso, oak and a green note of dried sage alongside astringent tannins. While the tannins need time, the fruit is already starting to dry up.
Barrel tones of coconut and woodspice take the lead in front of cranberry and blackberry, with the fruit seeming a bit dried out. It's reserved in style but still fully flavored with sour cherries accented by licorice.
Briary plum and cherry cough-drop aromas give way to a crisp, fairly full palate with chewy tannins. Plum and peppery spice flavors are kept simple, while this finishes with some dark-berry character and a touch of bitterness.
This wine offers dark coffee, green olive, savory notes and barrel spices. The flavors are lighter in style but with good concentration backed by firm, lipsmacking tannins.
Bramble wood and savory herbs lend earthiness to this ripe, juicy wine. Fruit-forward in style, the palate bursts with black currants and cherry flavors. Soft acidity and a whisper of tannins on the finish keep the mouthfeel plush.
This friendly wine offers fresh, jammy berry and cherry aromas. The palate has a bit of grit and stickiness to it, while blackberry, black cherry and boysenberry flavors are ripe, sweet, not pushy and ultimately satisfying.
Jammy, soft blueberry aromas are a touch green. This is syrupy, heavy and sticky on the palate, with chocolate, prune and peppery flavors. Tannic and heavy on the finish, this is an overweight Malbec that's lush to the point of being fat.
Floral berry, earth and tea aromas are friendly. This Pinot is fresh and perky in feel, with red-fruit and tomato-like acidity pushing flavors of dry cherry, mixed spices, herbs and tomato. This finishes spunky, with crisp acidity and peppery overtones.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Petit Verdot, this robust wine opens with aromas of leafy underbrush, mature plum, toast and roasted coffee bean. The palate offers prune, dried cherry, black pepper, graphite and espresso alongside dusty tannins, with the heat of alcohol on the midpalate.
Neutral on the nose except for a whiff of apple, this is a wine to drink now. A round, pulpy palate is balanced by citric acidity, while waxy flavors of baked apple and peach finish briny and round, with a hint of green banana.
Moderately aromatic, this recalls lime leaf and mineral. It drinks off dry with tangerine and other citrus flavors.
A blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 15% Cabernet Franc and 5% Petit Verdot, this conveys aromas of vanilla, oak, red currant and cedar. The hearty palate displays mature plum, dried cherry, espresso and bell pepper alongside drying tannins. It finishes with the heat of alcohol.
Ripe and fruity, this is packed with black currant juiciness supported by a strong tannic element. Vineyards close to the Gironde estuary give this property a fine location. The smokiness of the wood combines with bright acidity at the end.
Firm and dense, this is a wine with a good future. Its blackberry fruits, smoky dry tannins and touches of wood aging are joined with acidity to bring out a structured character. Drink from 2016.
This smoky wine has firm tannins and a tough core. The juicy fruit is taking its time develop, although it will provide density and ripe berry fruits in time. The vineyard, created in the early 1980s, is now at peak maturity. Drink from 2017.
Ripe and perfumed, this is packed with the richness of 2010 along with its structure. It has weight, juicy black and red berry fruits and a tense structure that still needs time. Acidity at the end provides a fresh lift to the essentially firm wine.
While the wood aging of this wine still shows, it's already balancing out with the ripe black fruits and rich structure. An attractive smoky character is followed by juicy berry flavors and acidity. This is a wine to age, so wait until 2017.
One of Bordeaux's more memorable labels (orange nymphs supporting a picture of the chateau), Saransot-Dupré is one of a number of chateaus in Listrac with the Dupré suffix. This is a solid wine, chunky in a typical way for the appellation with plenty of black fruits and balanced tannins. Drink from 2017.
Big in flavor and ripeness, this full-bodied wine tastes concentrated and feels lush, almost soft. It smells like boysenberry jam, tastes like dried cherries and dried plums and has a streak of raspberry that lifts it a bit.
Crushed rocks and smoke mingle with savory dried herb and bramble in this lean, dry wine. Lemon-lime acidity reverberates against a core of fresh pear flavor. The finish is tight and brisk.
Potent black-plum and black-cherry aromas come with a ton of grainy, spicy oak. This is both fresh and bright as well as dark, brawny and roasted in character. Flavors of ripe blackberry and cherry share the stage with toasty, charred oak and spice flavors in front of an aggressive but tasty finish.
This savory blend of Sangiovese, Merlot, Alicante and a dollop of Petit Verdot and Colorino delivers core flavors of crushed plum and ripe blackberry, accented with notes of white pepper, clove and dried herbs. It's easy drinking and balanced, with fine-grained tannins.
This is unusual for a reserve, in that it's lower in alcohol than the regular bottling, and more cases were produced. The light fruits and herbs—green apple and lemon verbena in particular—are highlighted with tarragon and citrus peel. The complexity compensates for the just-on-the-edge ripeness, and time in 20% new oak adds a buttery note to the finish.
Produced from a selection of small parcels, this perfumed wood-aged wine is big and concentrated while also keeping style and balance. It is dark, firm in the center with tannins that are surrounded by juicy acidity and black currant fruits. Keep for a few more months and drink from 2016.
A jammy, ripe wine that's deliciously full of plum jelly flavors. The dry, dusty tannins are in the background enhancing the structure although still leaving the rich fruit and wood flavors at the front. Drink this full-bodied wine from 2017.
This is a ripe, perfumed wine with smooth, generous texture and broad black fruits. An earthy, leathery edge gives extra character, and the suggestion of maturity comes from the wood aging and the ripe berry fruits. Drink now.
This Rogue Valley Pinot is markedly different from more familiar Willamette Valley styles. Though not at all fleshy, it has pretty, sculpted strawberry and raspberry fruit, lightly candied and fully ripened. A wash of butterscotch wraps around the pleasing finish.
Made from the oldest vines on the estate, this ripe and fruity wine is ready to drink. Its tannins are already integrated, leaving a smooth-textured wine that is accompanied by spice and red plum fruit flavors.
Puckering lime zest and lemon notes are softened by crisp yellow peach and nectarine in this dry, light-bodied Riesling. Racy and brisk, it finishes with an elegant crush of minerals. Drink now.
On the nose, this is challenging: gaseous, oaky aromas of wet cement also contain notes of bitter lettuce, baking spices and general grit. Raw, tannic and abrasive on the palate, this unfolds to offer herbal flavors of berry and plum. Tannic, scratchy, rugged and mildly green on the finish.
Muscular, leathery aromas of dark-berry fruits come with a can't-miss animal element. This Grenache-Carignan blend features a powerful grip and grabby texture. Earthy, jammy flavors of raspberry and plum end with herbal accents, dry spice and the taste of bitter black cherry.
Savory meat and vanilla on the nose lead into flavors of cherry, pepper and plum in this well-made, balanced red. Fresh but fruity, the wine has a wave of warming spice and a clean finish that will pair well with grilled meats, salmon and cheeses.
This is a light-tasting, dry wine with white pepper and fennel aromas, crisp green apple and lemon flavors, and a savory, earthy nuance that adds complexity. Medium bodied and mouth-filling, this interesting wine steps outside the flavor box.
This blend of half Merlot, half Cabernet Sauvignon is rustically earthy and soft, betraying the plush, plummy Merlot. Tight on the finish and medium in weight, it has a black peppery finish that appeals and suggests pairing with well-seasoned meats.
While this wine has an attractive honey character, it is only lightly sweet. It's more about acidity balanced with richness and a wonderful orange-zest character that gives a lift as well as bright aftertaste. The wine needs until 2016 to get its full act together.
This has a very deep red color, spicy aromas like cedar, vanilla and cocoa, and rich, chocolaty, berrylike flavors. While quite full bodied, it's as smooth as velvet due to moderate tannins and soft acidity.
The color is not too deep or too light, showing a red-brick rim. Aromas resemble red cherry and cranberry, while fresh, tart and tangy flavors like cranberry and raspberry combine with firm tannins for a bit of grip in the texture. Lean and medium bodied, it will make a versatile foil for food.
This intriguing wine reflects the typical wild and earthy characteristics of the grape variety. It has smoky, earthy raspberry aromas, plum and pomegranate flavors, a touch of tartness, a smooth texture and medium body. It tastes mature and mellow.
Here's a savory, easygoing blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Syrah that opens with aromas of red berry and cooking spice. The fresh palate offers black cherries, crushed strawberries, white pepper and a hint of clove alongside bright acidity and fine-grained tannins. Drink now.
A blend of 80% Nebbiolo and 20% Cabernet Sauvignon aged in barriques, this opens with aromas of bell pepper, cedar and red currant. The palate delivers dried black cherries, coffee, mocha and grilled herbs alongside firm, fine-grained tannins.
From one of the great names of Port, this LBV is a richly sweet wine, full of dried fruits, balanced acidity and a soft, smooth texture. It is a generous, very accessible wine.
Made from a series of small parcels, this fruity wine shows the fresh side of Malbec. With its gushing purple color and ripe black-plum juice flavors, it's designed to drink young. Try it from 2016.
A barrel-selection from multiple vineyard sources, this offers black cherry fruit highlighted by root beer and black licorice. Aging nine months in 25% new barrels adds pleasant toastiness to the finish.
Bordeaux blends show promise in this region. This combination of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37.5% Merlot and 12.5% Cabernet Franc reveals rustic, leathery aromas of crushed Italian herbs, dried red cherries and fresh dill. Once sipped, flavors of fresh-ground coffee, oregano and bay leaf spice a base of cranberry fruit.
There's a respectably complex nose on this pink wine, with lemonade and pressed plums blending into a wet cement minerality. The palate is very tasty, with flavors of pomegranate, dried rose petals, hibiscus, night jasmine and even a clove-laced mocha element proving quite intriguing.
Almost equal parts Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon (with slightly more Merlot), this is a reduced and approachable wine. It's slightly syrupy-thick on the palate, juicy in clove, plum and blueberry. A trace of minerality fights for attention around a medium body, finishing fairly quick.
Rose petals, violets, red cherries, plums, rhubarb and heavily peppered spices dominate the nose of this tasty wine from a little-known appellation 27 miles inland from Monterey Bay. It's softly textured upon sipping, then acidity shows up and holds through the sip, along with a stemmy tension. Fresh flavors include sour cherries and red berries.
The grapes for this wine from regional pioneer Gary Eberle are nearly equally sourced from three vineyards: Steinbeck, Wine-Bush and CoCaVin. The nose is herbal with sagebrush, oregano and thyme, offering just a bit of black plum fruit. The palate is also full of crushed, dried herbs, proving a touch sour and tarry, with cooked strawberry and dried raspberry fruit.
Sourced from vines planted in the 1980s, this tart and steely wine mixes lemongrass and citrus flavors with hints of riper peach. It finishes with suggestions of fresh-brewed tea.
Lean aromas of bell pepper and green fruits are not overly intense. This is linear, juicy and tight in frame. Flavors of lime, scallion, caper and dry cider finish racy and scouring. Good mouthfeel is a plus.
There is nothing bashful about this wine. It's big, bold and structured. It holds the potential of great fruitiness as well, a solid core that is surrounded by ripe black berries, just a touch of chocolate and wood. Drink from 2017.
Intensely aromatic in spicy black cherry and earthy leather, the Devious Primitivo is more structured than some of Macchia's Zinfandels, more savory than sweet, with tannic grip. Smooth and velvety, it'll impress alongside salumi and other charcuterie.
It opens with fragrances of stone fruit, Granny Smith apple and white almonds. The succulent palate delivers juicy pear, white peach, nutmeg, white almond and mineral alongside crisp acidity. It's nicely balanced with great length and finesse.
Made from grapes grown in one of the best vineyards in the valley, this Syrah is a particular success, given the challenging vintage. It's tannic, bone dry and zesty in acidity, with deeply extracted blackberry, black currant, charred meat bone and black pepper flavors. The long, rich finish suggests aging. Hold until 2017.
Smoke accents ripe yellow peaches on the nose of this intensely penetrating kabinett. The palate shocks with luscious mango and melon flavors, layered with bristling mineral accents. It finishes long, with a reverberating astringency.
Rich and complex, it unfolds with aromas of graphite, barrel smoke, cured meat and berry fruits that settle on a smooth palate with layering and plush tannins. Bright flavors of blackberry, chocolate and cappuccino finish lightly herbal, with a tobacco note and zero heaviness. Drink through 2018.
This compelling blend of Viognier, Marsanne and Roussanne—aged for three months in 20% new French oak—brings notes of barrel spices, apricot and pear. There's a touch of sweetness to the full -bodied, textured fruit flavors that provides a perfect counterbalance to the sharply defined, lingering finish.
Initially this wine is smooth and creamy textured. As it opens up it shows a cool, crisp character, with white apple fruits and layers of spice from wood aging. It's an elegant wine, very balanced already, but likely to age for several years. Drink now and until 2020.
Rich and full in the mouth, this is a wine with structure, tight minera ltexture and beautifully juicy fruit. The acidity is a strong part of this wine, giving a citrus tang to go over the wood aging. Drink from 2016.
There's nothing shy about this Zin, which showcases both the variety's personality and the wine's terroir. The raspberry, licorice and espresso flavors have a sweet edge of brown sugar. The finish is entirely dry but hot, but that's part of Dry Creek's charm, and suggests pairing with rich, spicy, smoky meats.
An intense and fresh wine that is packed with acidity as well as powerful red fruits. It is breathtakingly fruity at this stage, the structure still developing and giving a delicious perfumed berry character. Drink from 2015.
Lots of purity, with acidity and stony minerality providing earthy balance to the lemon, lime and mango fruit flavors. Thoroughly dry, it's a classy wine to drink now.
This beautiful Pinot Noir is a blend of various vineyards throughout the appellation. It shows classic coastal acidity, dryness and silkiness, with appealing raspberry, red licorice, cola and pomegranate flavors, wrapped into finely ground tannins. Decant and drink now.
The cool 2011 vintage has kept this bottling from being as ripe as previous wines from this producer. It's certainly leaner, but for all that, it's dry, silky and elegantly complex in its own way, with dried raspberry, tea and white pepper flavors. It could surprise after 2017.
The second wine of Château Cheval Blanc is packed with wood flavors and spice. A toasty wine, it also has solid tannins plus fragrant fruitiness. Already the fruit is coming through strongly and it is for medium-term aging. Drink from 2017.
Made from Viognier grown in the Gaillac region, this is a rich wine with tropical and yellow fruit flavors. The wood aging shows gently through the fresh fruit and attractive acidity. The wine is ready to drink, but will improve until 2018.
This full-throated wine has layers of black fruits, firm tannins and a dense texture. It is rich, the black plum fruits partnered by dark chocolate and licorice. Wood aging still shows and the wine needs to broaden out even more as it ages. Drink from 2018.
This marks the first vintage of this Moulis estate under the ownership of the Barton family of Léoville Barton. Already the wine is showing breeding and an understated structure and richness. Lightly perfumed, full of black fruits and integrated tannins, it should age well. Drink from 2017.
Syrah dominates the blend on this dry, complex red wine. It brings tannins and deep flavors of blackberries and charred meat. One-third of Grenache adds lightness and cherries, while oak contributes the perfect note of toast. The alcohol is high, but it never feels hot, just mouth-filling and warming. It's a polished and complex wine that brings to mind a perfect steak.
Tannins give a dark, mineral structure. The black fruits, slowly coming through, are still part of this serious purpose, with wood flavors and dry fruits prominent. It still needs aging, so don't drink before 2016.
Because strong toast aromas show through this wine, its attractive full fruit will need time to come through. The wine, with its firm, almost red-wine structure, needs to age until 2016 before drinking.
This is a powerful, rich blend of Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon. It has structure, dark tannins, complex red berry fruits and just the right amount of wood aging. With its solid structured foundation that is partnered with the ripe fruits, it's going to age well. Drink from 2016.
This apricot and honey flavored wine is both rich and fresh. The balance between the sweetness, the botrytis and the acidity is just right. It will go well with blue cheese or pâté. Drink from 2015.
Bone dry, this succulent, citrus-soaked Riesling is a textural marvel. Mixing grapefruit, lime and pear fruit flavors, its racy acidity underscores its complexity.
Named after a 17th-century nun who lived nearby, this wine packs impressive power and concentration. A great weight of solid tannins are paired with luscious red fruits. Its density, dry core and layers of fruit and acidity promise good aging. Drink from 2017.
This wine is made in the style of the winery's marvelous Finch Hollow Chardonnays, but is just a little less concentrated. Dry, crisp and elegantly clean, it has complex, mineral-infused flavors of tangerines, peaches and limes, enhanced with lots of smoky new oak. It should hold in the bottle through 2016.
Showing richness, this wine is smooth and well balanced between ripe red berry fruits and generous tannins. The wood aging shows in a slight burnt edge, but this will pass as the wine develops. Drink from 2016.
This rich, youthful wine is another example of Lugana that is aging gracefully and has more to give. It opens with aromas of citrus, dried apricots and flint that carry over to the palate together with lemon drop, grapefruit and pear, plus fresh acidity. A mineral note marks the start of the long finish. Drink now through 2018.
Some wood aging has rounded out this fruity wine. But it has not radically changed its inherent fresh, crisp character. It shows apples, lemon and lime juice and just a touch of spice from wood. The wine is ready to drink but will be best if left until 2015.
Still firmly tannic, this wine is densely structured and shows good potential. It has dark tannins and rich berry fruits, followed by a more juicy aftertaste. With power and style combining well, it should be aged. Drink from 2017.
With a licorice, chemise and cherry-laden nose reminiscent of a hillside hike through the chaparral in the morning dew, this wine is rather tannic on entry, tending toward chamomile tea with cranberry fruit. With a strong tannic backbone, it could drink well for awhile.
Raw, lightly leafy red-berry aromas properly announce what amounts to a juicy, snappy Tempranillo with berry, spice and dry oak flavors. A dry feeling, peppery tasting finish is traditional for good, basic Spanish table wine.
All stainless fermented, this seems to show some residual sugar, perhaps in order to round out the austere acidity. Lemon and tangerine fruit—all with plenty of acid—are annotated with highlights of fresh cilantro. It would be a fine match for simple, white fish.
Candied red-berry aromas are pasty at first, with a twinge of green. In the mouth, this is wiry and jammy feeling, with juicy acids. Herbal, slightly green flavors of olive, toast and berry fruits finish minty and a bit hot.
Tight, nervy and mineral, this crisp and fruity wine needs a few months to develop fully. It's lively with citrus fruits, an herbaceous character and steely aftertaste.
Blackberry liqueur, violet, cola and slight dustiness form the nose of this well-priced wine. The flavors are a bit thinner than expected, most reminiscent of ripe pomegranate.
Pretty aromas suggest plum, red berry, leather, graphite and eucalyptus. The understated palate isn't as expressive as the nose, but reveals subdued black cherry, black pepper, espresso and oak. Astringent tannins still need to integrate, but for now leave the mouth feeling dried out. Drink after 2020.
The Red Pony brand is putting out reliably distinct wines. This one smells of cranberry, oregano and barnyard. The tannins and acidity are solid, with strawberry and pomegranate flavors leading to an earthy finish. Hold until 2016 for an even smoother time.
This opens with aromas of toasted oak, espresso and a hint of tire rubber. The palate displays sweet black cherry extract layered with milk chocolate, coffee and oak alongside bracing tannins and racy acidity. Drink after 2018.
The lightest wine in the winery's well-crafted lineup, this marries grapefruity acidity to tart cherry fruit. It's nicely balanced, airy and a pleasure to drink.
This tight, young wine is shot through with steely acidity and minerality. It tastes of the flinty soil of Pouilly, full in the mouth and concentrated. Give it until 2015 before drinking.
Crafted entirely from estate-grown fruit, this tart, citrus-flavored rosé is anchored in rhubarb and strawberry flavors. It offers medium concentration and length, with a subtle suggestion of cola woven into the finish.
Raspberry and plum aromas start with a resiny oak covering that turns foresty and briary with airing. This is raisiny and ripe in feel, with a complex mix of berry, fennel and anise flavors. A lush, dense-feeling finish is minty and herbal.
This tastes of warmer Russian River Valley climes, darker and riper in black cherry and berry fruit character with a layering of toasty cinnamon and oak. The aroma tends to the earthy/pastoral.
As is often the case with Oregon's 2011 Pinots, this remains stubbornly tight, and shows herbal and stem flavors rather than pretty fruit. That said, it also displays the excellent structure of the better wines from the vintage. Underpinnings of acid and tannin, plus the still sharp-edged pomegranate fruit, may carry it up to 2024.
This comes from estate-grown fruit in the Chehalem Mountains AVA. Spicy and sharp-toned, it brings tart acidity and highlights of orange peel to flavors of wild mountain berries. The tannins are still a bit rough, but should smooth out with more bottle age.
It's the hard, granite rock of the vineyards that gives this wine its tight, firm texture. It is very crisp, structured with tense acidity and strong lemon-lime flavors. The wine, with its intense freshness, is very much made to partner food.
A new label for MacMurray Ranch, this Pinot Gris is stony in fresh nectarine, pear and mango, wrapped in a creamy texture that develops fleshy flavors of fig in the glass. The fruit is sourced from both MacMurray Ranch and Gallo's cooler Russian River Valley outpost, Two Rock, near Petaluma.
This wine offers a lighter side of Petite Sirah. It conveys more red fruit than brooding black and blue, a taste of red licorice and lean, balanced red cherries sleekly layered over earthy plum and spice. Its structure and acidity make it food-friendly, ready to accent a black pepper steak or similarly seasoned roast.
Exotic incense, sandalwood and ripe berry aromas waft from the glass of this single-vineyard Barbaresco. The palate is initially closed but slowly reveals crunchy Morello cherry, toast and espresso alongside assertive tannins. Drink after 2018.
Pure berry aromas define the nose on this highly drinkable Garnacha-Syrah blend. In the mouth, it's clean, juicy, a bit round and easy to process. Typical Aragónese flavors of plum and berry finish tasty and unbroken.
This respected Bierzo producer's base-level Mencía is jumpy on the nose, with floral berry and plum aromas. It feels fresh and bright, with ample structure. Standard berry, plum and currant flavors come with notes of spice, while the finish is forward and fresh.
Floral and pretty in ripe peach and pineapple/mango, it unwinds with a finish of vanilla.
Finished (apparently) off-dry, this seems to show some residual sugar in a leesy, yeasty style. The fruit suggests pears and cotton candy, with juicy acidity supporting the sweetness. Don't look for your standard dry Pinot Gris, but what's here is generous and enjoyable.
This Petite Sirah-led blend offers cherry, cedar and smoke, with a bit of morel mushroom funk on the nose. The palate reveals tobacco, plum jam and harder-than-expected tannins, with a slight vanilla finish.
This is a smooth, easy-drinking and rather light-bodied wine, not unusual in the tricky vintage of 2011. Relatively light in color, this offers scents of sweet cherry, vanilla and cinnamon, while the flavors recall cherry and raspberry. The texture is almost delicate but livened up with a good touch of acidity.
Varietally specific aromas of wild flowers, honey and lemon verbena set up an unctuous, creamy palate with modest acidity and lots of weight. Honey, mango, vanilla and other sweet, tropical flavors finish thick but not quite cloying. This is a unique wine for Navarra that deserves to be judged on its own.
Plum, vanilla, chocolate and subtle oak aromas carry over to the palate. The palate displays chocolate-covered cherries, fig and coffee alongside bracing tannins that leave a drying finish. Drink 2018–2025.
This is aggressively tart and herbal, but shows good density and concentration. Flavors of lemon verbena mixed with lime-ade run true and full on through an extended, focused finish.
Pastoral and earthy, it's straightforward and tightly woven in tannins, with balanced acidity that offers a sense of wild strawberries. A well-made wine priced attractively; stock up for midweek needs.
Aromas of citrus, white stone fruit and a vegetal hint suggesting tomato leaf lead the way. The racy palate offers grapefruit, pineapple, fresh white peach and flinty mineral while a pleasantly bitter note closes the finish.
Fresh fruit flavors suggest a bowl full of berries and cherries. Crisp acids help to focus the wine, with spot-on varietal flavors and balance. Both elegant and complex, it's a lovely bottle from an under-the-radar producer.
This delicate Hungarian white wine is a blend of 86% Furmint, 9% Yellow Muscat and 5% Kabar. It has enticing aromas of white flowers, botrytis, gardenia, apple blossom and apricot that prepare your palate for flavors of peach juice, citrus zest, grapefruit juice, caramelized pineapple and a crisp clean finish.
In a classic combination of ripe flavors and lip-smacking structure, this full-bodied wine wraps concentrated black cherry and mint aromas and generous cherry and blackberry flavors in muscular tannins that keep the texture fresh.
Tar and beef char kick off the nose on this dark and heavy wine, which offers asphalt, smoked meats and crushed elderberry. Caramelized beef, balsamic-blackberry reduction, tobacco and touches of smoke show on the palate.
Aromas of pear, Spanish broom, flint and Mediterranean herb emerge in the glass. The juicy, medium-bodied palate offers ripe apple, peach and lime alongside fresh acidity and a mineral vein. A hazelnut note marks the close.
The man who makes a million Syrahs dives into a blend of 60% Grenache, 25% Mourvèdre and 15% Syrah on this bottling, which offers composting lilac, black pepper, fresh boysenberry, dried herb and a tarry quality on the nose. There's a strong blackberry-balsamic reduction flavor once sipped, as well as beef char, elderberry and more tar.
Pineapple and lime peel start the nose of this layered Assyrtiko. On the palate, it unfolds with a combination of lemon peel, grapefruit and sea salt. This wine can age for several years but is good to drink now; pair with lamb, fresh fish or Asian cuisine.
Loads of clove, allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg spice show up the strawberry, blueberry and red cherry aromas of this lavish bottling, which also offers scents of crushed rock and turned earth. Similar elements entertain the palate, culminating with a minty pine needle note, proving to be a very dynamic sip.
Huckleberry and dark cherry mingle around a viscosity of velvety texture and tannin, dusted in notions of black tea, tar and red currant. Light in color, but bold in flavor, this wine speaks to both the cool nature of its vineyard site, and to the style of the winemaker.
Smooth, medium-bodied layers of pomegranate, red currant and a refreshing sense of citrus make for a light, food friendly companion, especially with the wine's satisfying bite of acidity and lengthy finish.
The grapes for this full-bodied wine hail from the Luvisi Vineyard in the heart of Calistoga old-vine country—a warm and welcome site for the variety. Baked blackberry and black olive combine around a taste of charred meat before brawny spins of brown sugar and nutmeg play on the palate with jolts of chocolate and vanilla.
This is a creamy, thick and food friendly white with highlights of honey and green apple and a lingering decadence of ginger, just hinting at anise. Medium-bodied, it represents the vintage and the appellation well, at a price that's nice.
A majority of Grenache and tiny bit of Mourvèdre from Kick Ranch and McGah Vineyard were racked to concrete egg for fermentation, with the intent of preserving freshness. Successful in that quest, this orange-pink wine is dry, tangy and well-integrated in terms of acidity, subtle in cranberry, dried cherry and orange, with a light, refreshing finish.
The slightest notes of angelica and kiwi fruit lend perfume to a slender, almost weightless body. This slinky Sylvaner runs rings around you, intriguing with its weightless charm. It's dry, lithe and refreshing.
Aromas of mature dark-skinned berry, fennel, toast and baking spice come together in the glass. The taut, focused, palate shows ripe black cherry, red raspberry, mineral and licorice while fresh acidity and firm tannins provide balance. Drink 2019 through 2024.
Spicy and lightly peppery, this fresh rosé brings concentrated strawberry fruit into focus. Made from organically grown grapes, it expands into a full-bodied finish with a lick of milk chocolate.
A fresh green-floral touch persists throughout this refreshing dry Silvaner. Light-footed in style, it offers crisp green-plum flavor accented by zippy flashes of lime and lemon zest. The finish is invigorating and brisk.
Here is the most engaging offering of the winery's 2013 single vineyard Pinots. It's bright with red-berry fruit and tropical-candy highlights. Meyer lemon peeks in, and the tangy fruit flavors continue into a finish of medium weight and length. Drink now and over the next couple of years.
Grated lime zest on the nose leads to an uncompromisingly but refreshingly brisk palate. This has freshness and a stony, almost chalky depth and wonderful concentration and freshness. It's dry, brisk and invigorating.
A bit stiff, this expresses its terroir with accents of earth and clay around muted red fruits. Streaks of sassafras, coconut and vanilla emerge as the wine breathes open. Decant this one for at least an hour or two.
This is a real tongue-stainer, earthy and packed with purple fruits. Flavors of blueberries, plums, bitter chocolate and charred wood abound. The wine remains lively with ample acidity and smooth, though dense tannins.
This well-made wine blends in a hearty 17% Petite Sirah, providing additional power and dusty berry flavor. Sultry and velvety on the palate, it's spicy and peppery in subtle measure, with a juicy cheeriness on the lengthy finish.
A new offering made entirely from estate fruit, this is a selection of the best blocks and barrels of the vintage, with its core component being 90% Howell Mountain Cabernet Sauvignon. The remainder is Zinfandel. Together they provide black color and a whiff of bay leaf and peppercorn, around well-integrated layers of black cherry, vanilla and black tea.
Peppery leather opens up this wine, blended with 5% Mourvèdre. More savory than fruity, it pleases in big tannin weight and length, with an intensity of brambly wildness and a sagey, smoky edge.
Typical for this winery, this smells a bit herbal, with tomato and earthy plum aromas leading the way. Scratchy, grabby tannins support savory, herbal berry flavors. Hard tannins struggle to resolve themselves on a firm, muscular finish.
This is a ripe, earthy, modern-leaning Rioja with aromas of blackberry, raisin and rubber. Soft and fleshy on the palate, what this easygoing number lacks in structure is made up for in charm. Ultraripe flavors of plum and berry come with a chocolaty accent, while the finish is smooth and tastes earthy and spicy. Drink through 2019.
Brilliant, pure fruit flavors light up this full-bodied but easy-to-drink wine. Cherry, strawberry and something deeper like black currant dance through the aromas and coat the tongue with their richness. The texture is smooth and plush due to fine tannins and mild acidity.
Dark shades of bramble and smoked nuts lend a shadowy mystique to this unusual Schwartzriesling, otherwise known as Pinot Meunier. Full bodied yet elegant, the palate boasts tart blackberry and raspberry flavors framed in finely grained tannins. A rare chance to experience this grape as a single varietal wine.
Earthy berry and raisin aromas announce a warm, ripe wine. This feels plump, grapy and chunky, with moderate acidity. Grapy, bold flavors of raspberry, prune and cherry are earthy and loamy, while ripeness and a raisiny element carry onto the finish. Drink through 2019.
A blend of 60% Syrah, 30% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Merlot, this inky garnet-colored wine offers aromas of cassis and elderberry. On the palate, there is a combination of cooked fruit and cool spice flavors yet there is no lack of accompanying acidity. Flavors of cassis, elderberry, anise, orange peel and vanilla are backed by silky tannins that stay smooth into the cooling finish.
Scorched earth, cured meat, toasted nut and grilled herb aromas lead the nose on this full-bodied red. The warm, ripe palate doles out raspberry jam, mature black cherry, vanilla and star anise framed in firm, velvety tannins.
The aromas of herbs, pencil lead and blue and red fruit are forward, fresh and appealing. The flavors follow similarly, showing depth and balance uncommon for a wine this price.
The picturesque name of the wine, the vineyard where God sits, comes from a monopole—a walled property in the hills behind Beaune, wholly owned by the Château de Santenay. Ripe and smooth with an attractive, crisp texture, the wine is ready to drink. A touch of toast gives extra interest.
Tilled soil, forest floor, mature black-skinned fruit, leather and a truffle note come together in the glass. The firmly structured palate presents juicy black cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon, vanilla and an earthy hint of game while assertive, close-grained tannins provide support. Give it a few years for the tannins to relax then enjoy. Drink 2019–2023.
A majority of Grenache plays lead here, with an accompaniment of 35% Syrah and 12% Mourvedre. Concentrated in a grip of leather, there's further integration of earth and black fruit that stays bright and vibrant on the palate, a medium-bodied coming-together of savory with ripe.
Produced from 25-year-old vines, this is a fresh as well as ripe wine, well balanced between herbal flavors and white and citrus fruitiness. It has a rounded texture that is juicy as well as full in the mouth. The wine is ready to drink.
Complexities of mushroom, caramel and brioche lend a haze of maturity over delicate strawberry and cherry notes in this Champagne-style sparkling,which was aged for eight years over lees. Tiny, persistent bubbles spread seamlessly on the palate, accentuated by streaks of racy acidity.
Always an eye-opening bottling, this blends 50% Sangiovese with 50% Syrah. This vintage shows cooked blackberries, baked plums, balsamic vinaigrette and black rocks on the nose. The palate is juicy and energetic, blending dark fruit with bright acidity, coffee and caramel flavors, with strong tannins for structure.
Buy this for its balance and welcome sense of restraint that gives way to richness on the finish. Crisp apple and light citrus aromas, then nicely concentrated and similar flavors, put an attractive spin on this medium-bodied, fresh and appealing wine.
What Baumard describes as a “secret blend” from its vineyards, this wine is both sweet and fresh. Honey and intense acidity are filled out with baked apple and lemon-marmalade flavors. It is ready to drink in all its fresh glory.
Guigal does a terrific job with its regional wines, and this rosé is no exception. Notes of crushed stone and underripe pineapple broaden out into red berries and white chocolate on the weighty but balanced palate.
Layered aromas and rich but vibrant flavors help this medium-bodied wine stand out. It has a medium color with a brickish rim, while aromas suggest black tea and black cherry. A dry, tangy, but ripe fruit expression on the tongue lingers on the finish.
Aromas of earthy, nutty, mature berry fruits come with a hint of raisin and a touch of compost. This saturated Vino de Cádiz is composed of 80% Syrah, with Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon. It's a heavy wine with flavors of vanilla, burnt wood, blackened spices and stewed berries. The finish tastes peppery, dark and outright woody. Drink through 2019.
This blend from Cádiz features Syrah, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon. It's big, ripe and minty on the nose, with hints of animal fur and leather. A blocky, full palate weighs in at 15.5%, while flavors of oak and vanilla blend well with spiced berry fruit. A drying finish tastes mostly of oak. Drink through 2025.
From older vines on the producer's estate, this wine has a depth of richness to the nose and is intensely powerful in gingerbread and Meyer lemon on the medium-bodied palate. Lemony acidity rounds out the finish, flecked in butter.
There is much buzz about this new Steve and Chrystal Clifton (of Palmina and Brewer-Clifton) project that finds inspiration for wine from music. This orange-mauve-pink rosé is redolent with the familiar Pinot components of cherry, sagebrush and clove. On the palate, iron, graphite and wild herbs spice up the pomegranate fruit. It's very varietally pure.
This is a brawny, strongly powerful wine, fully displaying the grip of mountain fruit. Blackberry and black currant complement the tobacco and cedar. Drink now through 2023.
This 100% varietal wine offers plenty of crisp cranberry, currant and restrained red fruit on the palate, the texture soft and supple. A pleasing shock of dark chocolate appears on the finish.
Leather and peppercorn jump from the glass in this soft, strong wine, powerful in tannin and dusty earth. A gravelly, rocky component plays on the palate around waves of chocolate and black currant, finishing in herb.
A blend of 60% Montepulciano and 40% Sangiovese, this is a grippy, leathery wine, the fruit sourced from two different sites in the appellation. Black leather, baked and dried plum, and cherry combine on the palate with breadth and length, finishing as if dusted in cocoa.
Red berry, chopped herb, blue flower and menthol all come together on this elegantly structured red. The juicy, accessible palate offers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, licorice and a hint of vanilla alongside round tannins. Drink through 2021.
Smoky, oaky, rubbery aromas are sophisticated and inviting. This blend of 90% Garnacha and 10% Carignan feels smooth, but with a healthy pulse. Plum and cherry flavors carry a note of oaky char, while a long, toasty finish offers a complex note of cured meat. Drink through 2020.
From the heart of the Rutherford Bench, this estate-grown wine is a classic version of restraint and elegance, structured in dusty tannin with bursts of cedar, tomato leaf and cassis. Cabernet Franc makes up 8% of the blend, with 3% Merlot. This will benefit from time in the cellar; drink 2020–2023.
Complex and well balanced, this wine shows enticing aromas of fruits, spices and subtle herbs followed by tangy, dry, and slightly lean flavors like cranberry and rhubarb. It will be great with a roast fowl of some kind and should mellow more with time. Best after 2018.
Decadent and candied, this is an oaky, well-made wine with richness at its core. Tahitian vanilla, caramel and Meyer lemon give way to more weighty tropical characteristics, making for a ripe, bigger-styled wine.
This mid-sized négociant has turned out a solid Tavel. It's classic red-berry hue is typical for the appellation, followed by ample weight on the palate and bold cherry-berry flavors—all wrapped up by a long, mouthwatering finish.
This ambitious blend of 60% Sangiovese, 15% Merlot, 15% Petite Sirah and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon largely succeeds, with aromas of tight blueberries, concentrated purple flowers and a touch of crushed peppercorn. The fruit-driven palate is dense with blueberry, tart boysenberry and a dusting of cocoa.
This wine is a big one, going all out to make friends. New-oak aromas like clove, cedar and cinnamon explode out of the glass, then flavors of dark chocolate and cherry spread across the palate for a generous—almost thick—impression. Fine layers of tannins and firm acidity blanket the texture.
This late harvest wine reminds one of lemon grass, cut grass and honeysuckle. It is sweet with a good acid balance along with flavors of lemon meringue pie and lemon curd.
Clean, crisp and bright, this was fermented in stainless (with just 10% in neutral wood), and not put through malolactic. The blend is 60/40 Chardonnay/Pinot Noir, yielding fresh fruit flavors of apple and melon that are focused and precise. A streak of ginger runs through racy acidity.
Firm and focused, this lightly spiced effort supports its tart cherry fruit with ample acidity. Hints of toasted coconut build in the finish. A few more years of bottle age should bring further integration.
A striking shade of amber/orange, this soft and fruity wine is open and loose knit, with broad flavors of mature, slightly oxidized tree fruits, plus lightly spicy notes of cinnamon and baking spices. It's very well made, but well apart from any standard approach.
A delicate streak of honeycomb gilds layers of yellow peaches, apples and tangerines in this off-dry Riesling. Its concentrated fruitiness is lip smacking, but it's also quite elegant, reverberating long on a steely strike of acidity and minerality. Drink now through 2020.
Mature black fruit, toast and spice aromas lead the nose. The firm palate is still tightly wound, offering baked black cherry, licorice and espresso balanced by youthfully assertive, taut tannins. Drink after 2019.
Crushed rose, pressed violet, perfumed berry, sage and a balsamic note are just some of the aromas you'll find on this full-bodied red. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, black pepper and licorice alongside tightly knit tannins and the subtle warmth of alcohol. Give it a few more years to come together. Drink 2018–2016.
A nose of wild blackberry and brambles lays the groundwork for a tender dance of fruit and herbal flavors, especially blackberry, pomegranate, eucalyptus and fennel bulb. Mouth-coating tannins dissipate on the finish, joined by a burst of tart pomegranate.
This is an unusual, exotic take on Malbec. The bouquet delivers cardamom, sandalwood and spiced black currant aromas. In the mouth, it's grabby with pinching tannins. Blueberry and cardamom flavors end ripe, with decent follow through. Drink now.
This falls sbetween a rosé and an orange wine in its appearance, a pale salmon/copper shade that results from 36 hours of skin contact before pressing. Scents of hibiscus tea and rosewater put a delicate top note ahead of rich, ripe, round and spicy citrus fruit. A strong impression of cinnamon marks the finish.
Red rose, wild berry, toast, tobacco and a whiff of underbrush meld in the glass. On the firm palate, notes of clove, ground pepper, cinnamon, anise and mocha accent the red berry core. Firm, fine-grained tannins offer structure.
Ripe borderline raisiny aromas include earth, cedar and graphite scents. This is concentrated, grabby and fully extracted. Flavors of jammy black fruits blend with spicy saucy notes prior to a finish with flavors of tomato, herbs, salt and gamy meat. Firm acidity guarantees this will last at least another five years before falling off.
Aromas of perfumed berry, mint baking spice, toast and espresso waft out of the glass. The palate is tight and rather primary at the moment, showing raw black cherry, raspberry, clove and toasted notes. It's still young but balanced, with fresh acidity and firm, fine–grained tannins. Drink 2016–2022.
A field blend of 85% Zinfandel, 11% Alicante Bouschet and 4% Petite Sirah, this juicy, spicy wine is robust and full bodied. Blackberry syrup and black cherry combine around cinnamon and black pepper, finishing in a wave of power.
Fresh and refined, this delightful, easy-drinking wine opens with scents of rose, woodland berry and a whiff of dark cooking spice. The vibrant, savory palate offers juicy red cherry, raspberry and white pepper alongside bright acidity and polished tannins. Drink through 2018.
Monbazillac, with its impressive castle, is part of the Bergerac region that makes some beautiful dessert wines. This wine, with its refreshing balance between acidity and rich honeyed flavors, conveys Seville orange marmalade and lemon acidity, with a smooth, botrytis aftertaste. Drink now, or better age until 2017.
Named after the winemaker, Amélie Couillard, this soft, rounded wine is smooth with creamed apple flavors while also having a proper tangy of acidity. That tight and tangy edge makes the wine refreshing now while also allowing it to age for a few more months. Drink now or from late 2016.
This wine is very structured and firm. With some barrel aging, the tannins have been smoothed out although the wine remains with a dry core and fresh acidity. Black-currant flavors dominate, giving a wine that is bright and fruity at the end.
An impressive blend of Merlot and Malbec, this is a solid, dark wine packed with both tannins and ripe berry fruits. It has a serious character with toast, acidity and complex spice flavors. Drink from 2018.
This ripe wine with open fruits has 40% Cabernet Franc in the blend, which lends an attractive perfumed character and gives the wine rich character and fruitiness. It will age for a few more years and be ready to drink from 2017.
Roast beef, grape candy, cracked blueberry, beef char and grapy freshness come to the nose on this bottling. The candied grape and blueberry elements carry dark-fruit character to the palate, along with licorice that gives depth. Roasting herbs in the midpalate adds savory flair.
At David Hill, the Winemakers Cuvée is a cut above the reserve. It's a muscular blend of scents and flavors of lavender, cherry and chocolate wrapped into a firm, focused finish.
Wild berry, grilled herb, aniseed and a hint of vanilla are some of the aromas you'll find on this attractive red. The linear, elegantly structured palate offers ripe black cherry, raspberry, licorice and grilled sage while a tobacco note closes the firm finish.
Waxy apple stars in this brisk, approachable white from a single estate-farmed block, the oak briny and salty in toast and honey. Textured and elegantly light bodied, it finishes with a satisfying note of lemon candy.
Pristine white peaches seem suspended in a crystalline solution of river rocks and mineral water in this refreshing dry Pinot Blanc. It's delicate in stature but abounds in elegance. Drink now through 2020.
Raspberry, rose petal, baking spice, tilled soil and new leather aromas unfold on this structured red. The chewy, full-bodied palate doles out juicy wild cherry, menthol and dark cooking spice while assertive tannins and fresh acidity lend balance. Drink 2019–2029.
A blend of 85% Cabernet Sauvignon with 15% Merlot, this was built to be approachable young. Grapes are sourced from an estate, organically farmed vineyard as well as two neighboring properties, Pickberry and Murray Ranch. Tobacco forms around a juiciness of blackberry and raspberry, giving it a sultry edge, while maintaing soft tannins throughout.
Smooth, deep aromas of licorice and blackberry are composed. This Mencía feels full and lusty, with grip but nothing too hard or edgy. Earthy black fruit flavors are savory, toasty and meaty, while the finish is woody and plump. Drink through 2020.
Despite its richness, this is a stylish wine that exudes freshness as much as dense fruit and structure. A blend of Touriga Nacional, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon, all structured varieties, it still yields a generous full-bodied and rounded wine. It does need to age, so drink from 2018.
Sourced from the southeastern section of the Rutherford appellation and 100% varietal, this is a seamlessly made wine, luxurious in cherry pie and leather saddle. Tangy acidity meets the dusty tannins head-on, finishing with a burst of orange zest.
While barrel-influenced and full-bodied, this unctuous wine remains crisp in edgy acidity, with lean flavors of lemon and grapefruit amidst a deeper, richer background of oak and caramel.
Freshly cut quince, guava, lemongrass and key lime aromas combine with a stony quality on the nose of this vibrant, zesty wine. Its acidity is almost effervescent, infusing the palate with boundless energy, while its chalky grip carries sharp green apple notes alongside warmer touches of pineapple and guava. Those vivid flavors linger for a full minute.
Bright raspberry, cherry and rose petal aromas meet cola spice on the pretty, delicate nose of this bottling—a solid example of the surge in quality of Central Coast Grenache. There is a tense tannic structure to the palate despite its light nature, with great acidity presenting tangy red and purple fruit flavors, with more rose petal accents.
This stellar reserve remains one of the finest Chardonnays from Oregon. Meyer lemon, peanut oil, salted nuts, citrus and tangerine combine in a deep and intense palate. Whole-cluster pressed and barrel fermented (but in just 10% new French oak), this delicious, dense and penetrating wine should be consumed now through the early 2020s.
The most recent of Palliser's Great Dog releases, the 2014 Ted is a full-bodied, muscular wine. Cola, cinnamon and thyme notes mark the nose, while the flavors feature dark cherries and plums, drawing to a lingering close with echoes of mocha and Mexican chocolate. Drink 2020–2028.
This is a golden, mature and sweet wine that comes from the white wine appellation of the Madiran region. It balances ripe apricot and honey with intense acidity to create a beautiful wine. The zesty marmalade and final crispness are delicious. Drink now.
An attractive silver-pink colored wine, this is beautifully ripe and fruity. It has a great balance between acidity and raspberry fruit. There is a herbal edge that gives the wine a fine tangy character. Drink this wine from the end of 2017.
This wood-aged wine is a fascinating example of how rosé can age. It is certainly mature and has lost its crisp fruitiness. But it has gained toast, a smooth rich texture and plenty of spice. It's obviously a food wine, ready to drink now.
Dense tannins and powerful black fruits reinforce the almost-black color of the wine. It is a strong wine, powered by dark plums, rich tannins and very fine acidity. Produced from organic grapes, it is an impressive wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2020.
Wreaths of smoke surround pretty raspberry aromatics. The red and plummy purple-fruit flavors continue, along with some tannic muscle and grip. This is a mix of 667 and Pommard clones—still young and a bit tight.
This was the first winery to make a truly white Pinot Noir (back in 2004). Produced exclusively from Pommard clones, it's barrel fermented and aged much like a Chardonnay. Along with great texture and length, there's plenty of acid supporting its palate-pleasing mix of white peach, melon and gooseberry. It finishes with a thread of lightly buttery caramel.
Like many of the winery's bottlings, this wine shows rich but balanced concentration. Loamy and fulfilling baked blueberry and blackberry aromas are laced with vanilla. The palate is lavish as well, with strong blueberry syrup, herb and pepper flavors and a caramel touch on the finish.
Ivy leaf and ripe, green pear notes make up this wine's enticing nose. The palate brims with juicy pear and citrus, feeling concentrated, lively and moreish. Dry and streamlined with citrus, it also layers pear and peach fruit before finishing with lip-smacking citrus zest.
Dark cherry and cola aromas meld with composting rose scents on the nose of this pleasing wine that will satisfy any lover of Pinot Noir. The palate exudes nutmeg, iron and rose flavors galore, adding spice to its core of plump raspberry and ripe cranberry fruit. Lively acidity and tannic depth complete the experience.
A hearty swirl in the glass wakes up this wine's aroma, showing lemon balm, cress and green pear. Those fresh flavors also play on the lithe palate, where yeasty savoriness is enhanced by lemony spritz. It's totally zippy and refreshing, with far more concentration than is at first apparent, proving it needs time to breathe.
This is the reserve-level Pinot Gris, comprised of lots from five different vineyards. Juicy, succulent and quite tart fruit flavors emphasize fresh apples and pears, lightly dusted with cinnamon spice. The concentration and lingering finish prove it worthy of its reserve status.
This new offering, made by Ross Cobb and Katy Wilson, is intended as a “best of the west.” Sourced from several vineyards, it reveals true coastal qualities, with ethereal earthiness and an Old World sensibility. Cloudy in the glass, it shows cranberry, orange, bay leaf and tea flavors as it unwinds.
Bryan Babcock makes plenty of more expensive Pinot Noirs, but this appellation blend hits all the right notes and shows off the results of the “pedestular cane suspension” technique he's been using in the vineyard. Wild thyme, sagebrush and bay leaf meet cranberry and slate aromas on the nose. Black raspberry and cranberry flavors lead the earthy palate, accented with nettle and peppercorn.
This 25% whole cluster bottling from the Full Draw Vineyard shows black cherry, leather, cola and sarsaparilla scents on the nose. Cherry cola and vanilla flavors mark the palate, where medium acidity and persistent tannins ensure solid cellaring potential. Drink 2018–2025.
In French, the vineyard name means “the meadow on the mountain,” a fitting name for the site. This is a spicy wine, with a touch of red-hot candy. The pretty cherry fruit is underscored with earth and mineral, and the astringent, tea-flavored tannins morph into a suggestion of cola at the tail end.
Almost white in color, this is a rich wine with intense red-currant and raspberry fruits. It is a dry wine, destined to partner food, with fine acidity as well as a herbal edge. It is a concentrated wine, ready to drink from the end of 2017.
The top wine from this estate is impressive. It has rich black fruits and firm tannins, showing its youthfulness. Its weight and concentration combine with the ripe fruits to give a wine that is destined for long-term aging. Négrette, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon go into this fine blend. Drink it from 2020.
Crisp, refreshing and uniquely spicy and mineral-driven, this blends 50% Sauvignon blanc, 25% Ribolla Gialla, 20% Sémillon and 5% Tocai Friulano—all unusual varieties in the Napa Valley. Light, bright and fleshy, it tastes of lemon, mango and the sea.
This blends 52% Chardonnay and 48% Pinot Noir in a seamless, focused package of bright acidity, moderate mousse and tangled peach, tangerine and blood orange flavors. It has impressive complexity and length, with a nutty note that closes out the finish.
This is a hearty version of a grape frequently made in a simpler, fresh style, showing roasted red berry, charcoal and mocha aromas on the nose. A deep cassis flavor permeates the palate, with beef char and black pepper accents that make for a compelling, rather lavish sip.
This attention-grabber hits the palate with reckless abandon. Stewed black plum and sugar plum aromas meet vanilla and strawberry pie scents on the lush nose. It's plush with creamy coffee, milk chocolate, blackberry and black cherry flavors, framed by soft tannins and a fine streak of acidity. Rather delicious.
Though labeled Willamette Valley, this is single vineyard Chehalem Mountains AVA fruit. Smooth, ripe and buttery, from sniff to swallow, it's loaded with Satsuma orange, Meyer lemon and pink-grapefruit flavors. The acids snap and the finish lingers, with a streak of vanilla and a slight sensation of heat.
This is a very limited bottling of 80% Cabernet Franc and 20% Merlot. Roughly half spent time in new French oak, which brings a lovely toasty note into the foreground. There's a slight, not unpleasant funkiness, along with dusty baking spices, black cherry and currant, and a chunk of dark chocolate. It's big, bold and delicious, and drinking quite well at the moment.
This bottling from Syrah legend Bob Lindquist, sourced from the biodynamic vineyard that he planted, delivers snappy boysenberry, white pepper, rosemary and lavender aromas. The palate judiciously balances savory, peppery spice and lush purple floral notes with tangy black plum fruit and rosehip accents, making for a wondrous sip.
Loads of ripe blackberry and boysenberry aromas lead to a plush, not quite soft mouthfeel laced with berry, cherry, clove and cinnamon flavors. It's a very generous, mouth-filling wine that will bring a lot of enjoyment.
Juicy blackberry and clove scents ride a full-bodied wave of flavor and leathery texture in this impressive wine. It shows both the brightness and the density of the appellation in a strong, warm vintage.
Made to be drunk young, this wine gives a burst of ripe red fruit. The tannins are soft and open, balanced with acidity. The aftertaste is smooth and generous. Drink now.
Named for the Servite convent in the town of Borba, this fresh, crisp and tangy wine is citric, with almond and apple overtones. It's young, fruity and made for immediate consumption.
A typical Douro blend of Touriga Nacional, Tinta Roriz and Tinta Barroca, this wine is all about bright, crisp fruit. Black and red currant flavors come with tight acidity and a juicy character. Tightly wound now, it needs a few more months to calm down. Drink from 2018.
A blend of Chardonnay, Garganega and Sauvignon, this has aromas of peach and golden apple. The simple palate offers pineapple and banana alongside bright acidity. Enjoy soon.
This opens with subdued aromas of espresso, grilled herb, scorched underbrush and French oak. The lean evolved palate shows roasted coffee bean, a hint of oak-driven spice and a salty note but the fruit has already dried up, leaving an abrupt, astringent finish.
The aromas of vanilla, herb and cherry show some volatility. The cherry flavors are light, finishing tart.
Gritty aromas suggest burnt popcorn and match stick. This is a round oily style of Torrontés with briny tropical fruit flavors. A salty note of persimmon carries an O.K. finish.
A French version of a brand that is more familiar in Chile as Viña San Esteban, this wine has more stylistically to do with South America than southwest France. It is soft, juicy, rounded and with attractive ripe tannins. The wine is ready to drink.
Aromas of roasted but slightly weedy berry fruits, road tar and latex precede a raw shallow pulling palate. This Malbec tastes of salty and savory black plums, tomatoes and herbs. On the finish, this delivers mostly spaghetti-sauce flavors.
A light wine with attractive berry flavors, this has a touch of caramel to go with its fruitiness and crisp acidity. Drink now.
If you like your Sauvignon Blanc herbal, then this is the wine for you. It's very fruity and New World in style, has tight acidity and is ready to drink.
Composed of 62% Sauvignon Blanc and 38% Sémillon, Bianca's White is minimally oaked and somewhat extreme in its acidity, with an intensity of tart flavor.
This pleasant, fruity wine has lemon-lime crispness. Hints of apricot flavor prove the Alvarinho grape is far from its northern Portuguese homeland. Drink now.
This blend of Arinto and Fernão Pires is soft and bland. Its light fruit and acidity feel open and ripe.
This wine is floral and spicy on the nose, but lacks the richness on the midpalate to fully support those ambitions. The result is a highly perfumed but modestly flavored wine with medium body and a dusty finish. Drink now.
Floral berry and plum aromas are also saucy and oaky, and thus discordant. A wobbly tannic palate with green herbal oaky blueberry flavors tastes grassy on the finish. If you know Casarena's wines, this fits the mold.
Off the bat, this smells a bit like fruit punch, although with time it stiffens. A chunky heavy somewhat flat palate tastes of clove, chocolate and berry and plum.
Reduced and dominated by tannin and oak, this large production offering is earthy and spicy, with full-bodied texture and weight. It finishes slightly green.
This soft, yeasty and sweet blend of Fernão Pires and Bical is fruity with apple and pear flavors. It has just enough acidity to keep it crisp on the finish and makes an easy apéritif.
This dry, tart wine smells like sliced apples and has lemon pastry-like flavors without the sweetness. The palate is full-bodied but cut with a zing of lemon and green apple.
The wine is soft and fruity with hints of honey as well as mango and peach flavors. It is lightly perfumed leaving room for a crisp aftertaste. Drink now.
Vague apple, pear and lime pith aromas show on the subdued nose of this bottling. The palate is pleasant, with dried apple, lime peel and grass flavors, but it's somewhat lacking in energy.
Low-intensity apple and pear aromas lead to a tight high-acid mouth. Severe flavors of lemon and lime are fairly sour. A long direct finish is linear and shearing.
Jammy aromas and equally ripe sweet fruit flavors give this wine a candied character. It's full-bodied and feels a little warm on the finish.
Soft notes of straw and honeycomb grace the orange and red apple fruit tones. The mouthfeel is round and a touch flat on the midpalate, finishing with a bitter almond flavor. Drink now.
Jammy jumbled foxy aromas set up a blocky flat palate. Greasy flavors of buttered-up berry fruits finish without much verve. This is good enough, but just barely.
A lightweight and easygoing white, this offers soft aromas and flavors of green apple, melon rind and citrus, all framed by bright acidity. The finish is short, but mouthwatering. Drink now.
Aromas of buttered noodles and honey fail to hold up in the glass. This sweet Macabeo feels a bit watery, with no complexity to the palate structure. Flavors of honey and vanilla are slightly bitter.
This medium-sweet rosé is a familiar style of local Portuguese wine. Fruity with raspberry flavor, it gives a slight a prickle on the tongue and has lively acidity. Drink now.
Soft, light and fruity, this wine is ready for a warm day. Apple flavors and clean acidity balance its soft sweetness, making it ready to drink now. Intriguingly, its label resembles that of a much more familiar brand of Vinho Verde.
A pure 100% Syrah that's got an elegant sense of restraint. Bright and compelling, the fruit surrounds classically delicious layers of black pepper and charcuterie, soft tannins and a vibrant personality that calls out for pairing with cured meats and sophisticated cheeses.
Sourced entirely from the Otis Harlan Vineyard, these vines were planted about 25 years ago. It's a pleasure to see them singled out for this showcase bottling. It's a rich, oily, nutty, buttery style to be sure, but also dense with ripe apple, pear and peach fruit. The acidity buoys it up throughout a strong, long finish.
The Daou brothers' considerable and continual investments is evidence that their wines will matter for years, ensuring a wise investment today. This 70% Cabernet Franc and 30% Merlot offers aromas of blueberry and cedar. Once sipped, the tannins grab with strength before dissipating smoothly. It's a seamless combo of spice, fruit, wood and herbs, but will evolve through at least 2025.
Though the alcohol is on the high side, this vineyard ripens the fruit well enough to sustain varietal character without the veil of heavy new oak. Here it's 50% neutral, 50% new, yielding rich strawberry andcherry flavors with a stiff, mineral streak.
This estate wine is seriously structured, with tones of dried herbs alongside richer elements of dense tannins and ripe black fruits. A bright acid backbone maintains a fresh and lively character. It might be best to lay down this selection for further integration.
This is an aromatic wine containing 8% Viognier, with perfumed notes of flowers and orange peel along with wet gravel, plum and smoked meat. The blue fruit flavors are intense and pure, backed by a squeeze of chalky tannins. Best after 2016.
The grape's stereotypical green nose gets a whole new interpretation, with aromas of sunburned hay, bags of desiccated grass and wild oregano. The herbaceous characters carry the palate, but it's smooth with thyme and chile verde flavors, and a lingering bit of citrus tartness and tannic grip.
The rich, fruity core of this 100% Alfrocheiro wine is given polish and weight from time spend in a barrel. The fruit at the heart is dense, showing hints of dark chocolate and spice flavors, supported by structured tannins. This wine is ready to be consumed now.
A smoky oak fire meets cooked meats and plum sauce on the nose of this wine, which retains great balance even at 16% alcohol. The mouthfeel is luxurious, complementing the cherry, red currant, licorice and black pepper flavors, wrapped around orange peel bitterness and well-integrated oak.
Plush and dusty, this splendid Merlot offers unusual depth and texture, even for Washington versions of the much-maligned grape. Along with black cherry fruit come highlights of herb and olive, spicy oak and rich earth. The density and detail carry through a long finish.
In 1978, Zaca Mesa became the first winery to plant Syrah in Santa Barbara County, and Winemaker Eric Mohseni keeps pushing the quality. This offers notes of blueberry cobbler, rocks and fresh-turned soil, followed by blue fruit flavors, dark chocolate, leather and slight asphalt.
The wine is intense, full in the mouth and rich. The warm, concentrated character brings out both ripe fruits and minerality. The result is a textured wine, tangy and citrus-driven, that also has broad yellow fruits along with the final acidity. Drink from 2016.
Impressively concentrated for a Pinot Blanc, it offers intense spice as well as crisp apple flavors. It's bright, with good acidity as well as a rich and rounded aftertaste.
Not overly sweet, this offers a spicy character on top of a touch of honey and fresh lemon flavors. It's surprisingly and attractively delicate for a Gewurztraminer, and ready to drink now.
Berry aromas are a touch dusty and floral on the nose, with hints of earth and cedar. On the palate, this wine is bright and balanced, with fresh acidity. Rich berry, cassis and spice flavors finish agile and long. Drink through 2016.
A classic Napa Valley Chardonnay, this is smooth, rich, balanced and well composed. Flowery aromas of honeysuckle open the way for lemon curd and ripe apple to compete with a depth of crème brûlée character that provides plenty of complexity, with additional accents of honey and spice.
Kian Tavakoli is the winemaker for this small-production Cabernet Sauvignon with some Merlot, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Franc. A brambly, full-bodied wine, it's concentrated in black fruit with a spicy streak of clove.
Bold and effusive in flavor, this full-bodied red gives ripe, concentrated, focused fruit flavors that recall boysenberry and blackberry. Tannins create that grippy, dry sensation that tames big slabs of meat. An attractive take on a traditional Spanish grape variety; drink now.
From a warm vintage, this blend is ripe yet still balanced, with aromas of prune, blackberry, tree bark and leather. The palate is saturated and broad, boasting flavors of dark, baked, black fruit accented by pepper and chocolate on the finish. Drink now.
Still tight and young, this tastes like a keeper that will improve with time. Aged in all new American barrels, it shows aromas of coriander, cumin and smoke, with flavors like black cherry and black pepper. It balances well between firm tannins, good acidity and full flavors, and everything sails through the finish. Best after 2018.
Merlot and Syrah join Tinta Roriz in this impressive wine. A fermentation in open lagars as well as time in oak give this blend richness and a deliciously juicy. Ripe and full bodied, it is ready to drink.
Fully creamy and generous in crème brûlée and lemon curd, this dances in acidity and is balanced, the texture silky smooth. Highlights center on fresh-cut Anjou pear, a slice of which would go well with the wine, accompanied by Stilton.
Made from young vines, this is the second wine of Suduiraut. It has young, honeyed character, with a ripe, opulent texture that lays bitter orange fruits over drier noble rot flavors. It is so delicious now, but will be better from 2017.
A sharp brine character gets warmer boosts from underlying pear, nectarine and buttered sourdough aromas. Flavors are light and bright at first, with sandy clay, vanilla cookie and custard strudel emerging on the midpalate and a line of acidity down through the finish.
Distinct and delicious aromas of crème brûlée with a strawberry glaze pick up some licorice and dark spice when digging deeper. The cranberry fruit's tartness, tannins, and acidity make for a mouth-rinsing wine. Serve with hearty pasta or rich meats.
Similar in style and aging potential to the winery's 2009, and blended with amounts of Malbec and Petit Verdot, this Cabernet Sauvignon from mighty Howell Mountain is rich in spicy blackberry and clove, the tannins soft and juicy.
This is a smooth and generous wine. It is rich, full-bodied and packed with dark plum flavor, but it's the ripe, velvet character that is so appealing. It's almost ready to drink, although the firm tannins and minerality at the end suggest it will be better from 2016.
A solid wine for the price, this begins with honeydew and lime aromas. Flavors start with a spicy cinnamon apple before diving into buttered squash, melon and fresh lime, with a dash of salt.
From the eastern vineyards of the Douro, in Douro Superior, this estate wine is heavily structured while showing rich fruit and impressive tannins. The texture is strongly mineral, complex and hinting at the concentration from fruit grown in this hot, dry climate. Drink from 2016.
Perfumed and off dry, this rich wine has spice, structure and a floral character. It is so young with its white fruits, hint of lychee and lime-juice acidity. The wine needs to age to reveal its potential. Drink from 2018.
The new American oak barrel fermentation and aging steals the show on this wine. Notes of vanilla and woodspice overpower the variety's melon and apple aromas and flavors. There are some good things going on but it's hard to get at them.
This 100% varietal wine offers generous aromatic notes of guava and pink grapefruit. Flavors are lighter in style with the concentration a bit wanting but it finishes well.
This rich, thick, concentrated wine offers big aromas, a velvety, tannic texture and ripe fruit flavors reminiscent of dried plums and blackberries. Full bodied, it shows a lot of oak influence in the strong vanilla and maple syrup aromas, as well as in the flavors.
This multi-vintage blend of Syrah, Grenache, Mourvèdre and Petit Sirah offers notes of black and white pepper, sea salt, herbs and coffee. It's on the lighter side of medium bodied with a pillowy-soft texture and a spice-filled finish.
This opens with a pretty floral fragrance of acacia, Spanish broom and chamomile. The palate doles out white peach and tangerine zest alongside fresh acidity.
Straightforward oak and roasted pear aromas great the nose on this wine from one of the region's central and historic vineyards. Flavors are a little flat at first, but then apple flesh and pear skin bitterness emerge, with citrusy acidity.
Berry and plum aromas are spicy and saucy, with secondary notes of tomato and oregano. Snappy on the palate, this live-wire Malbec is a bit aggressive and acidic. Toasty oak and mint flavors accent fresh red-berry fruit prior to an energetic yet woody finish that's raw feeling but fair.
Hailing from 1970s plantings, this wine is directly appealing with aromas of corn silk, candy corn, caramel and spice. The palate is sleek in style with plump peach flavors. Try it with crab.
Aromas suggest mature black berry, savory herb and a balsamic note. The palate displays baked plum, black pepper and anisette alongside bracing tannins.
This robust wine delivers aromas of spiced plum, stewed prune, vanilla and chocolate that carry through to the ripe, monolithic palate. Drink through 2020.
Underbrush, tobacco and spiced plum aromas lead the nose. On the straightforward palate, notes of anise and clove add depth to the black cherry core. It's easy drinking, with lithe tannins.
Aromas suggest toast, mocha, vanilla, dark-skinned fruit and a whiff of burnt matches. The oak-driven spices carry over to the palate along with a licorice note but not much fruit richness. Astringent tannins provide the backbone.
This robust wine features aromas of stewed plum, damp hay and anisette. These carry over to the warm palate, along with dried fruit flavors and the heat of evident alcohol that throws it off balance.
Aromas of pressed powder, blue flower and a whiff of plum waft from the glass. The palate offers dried red berry, sage and mint but not much fruit richness. Bracing, drying tannins leave an astringent finish.
This lightly aromatic wine offers notes of pear, peach and spice. It's straight down the fairway with appealing stone fruit flavors and a lightly creamy feel.
Aromas of bath oil and exotic fruits like lychee and mango come in front of a short, simple palate that's fresh. Lychee and mango flavors finish in tropical style, with a mild soapy note. The wine is varietally correct and well done.
Made with 58% Malbec and 42% Syrah, this wine offers alluring aromas of thyme, dried herbs, raspberry and white pepper. It's elegant in style, supple in feel, providing a lot of easy-drinking pleasure.
This blend of 41% Chardonnay, 26% Marsanne, 18% Roussanne and 15% Viognier shows notes of grilled sweet corn on the cob and Golden Delicious apple. It's broad in feel but seems to only have one trick to show.
This is well-balanced and ripe, with plenty of room for both the attractive black fruits and the firm tannic structure. Wood aging shows, although it will integrate well. The wine is fruity, likely to be ready to drink from 2016.
Leesy aromas of pear and melon are friendly and fresh. This Verdejo is lean, citric and drawn on the palate, with lemon, white pineapple and green apple flavors. A tangy, tight, juicy, acidic palate ensures that this ends with crispness and snap.
The film director's sparkling ode to his director daughter delivers aromas of apple blossoms, pear cider and chalk. An apparent sweetness on the palate is cut with a pithy grip, the apple-juice base leveled with ample lime elements.
Aromas of ripe red cherries, licorice and vanilla extract emerge from this wine by the longtime estate across from the township of Santa Ynez. Blackberry and blueberry fruits power the palate, but there's a black dirt earthiness and some meatiness too. Tannins are still quite strong.
This blend of 50% Viognier, 19% Chardonnay, 19% Sauvignon Blanc and 12% Pinot Gris offers notes of pear and flowers. It's broad and creamy in feel with stone fruit flavors on the finish.
Softly layered red and black berries belie this wine's concentration and force, which is substantial, a backing of powerful leathery tannins at its core. On the nose, there's black peppercorn and an herbal element.
This emphasizes freshness and a light touch, rather than the assertive flavors that this varietal can produce. It smells like rose petals, has a soft texture, rose petal and pear flavors, and delivers a light spritzy feeling on the tongue.
A kitchen-sink blend of nine different varieties with Merlot (40%) and Syrah (25%) taking the lead, this wine brings an assortment of herbs, blue fruit and woodspice along with light volatile notes. It's full bodied and sweet with abundant cherry flavors backed by grainy tannins.
With 5% Viognier giving it an extra boost, this richly aromatic wine suggests apricot and dried mango. It drinks quite sweet with abundant stone-fruit flavors. Enjoy as an apéritif or digestif.
This biodynamically farmed wine comes from Steep Creek Ranch next to the winery facility and Nelson Vineyard on the shores of the Columbia River. It shows lots of intrigue, with pure notes of herbs, mulberry and mineral that are enjoyable yet elusive. It's clingy in feel, with elegant yet rich fruit flavors.
Faint aromas on this 100% varietal wine suggest star fruit and wet stone. It's broad and fleshy in feel, but with light concentration to the Meyer lemon flavors. Pair with beurre-blanc sauced seafood.
Crisp lemon, fennel and Bosc pear come into play in this medium-bodied Chardonnay, accented by a taste of fig. Taking on depth and breadth as it develops in the glass and on the palate, the wine finishes long and lean.
This is a rich, maturing wine that is full of toasty, yeasty flavors that are finely integrated with the orange zest and apple flavors. It is just right to drink now, at a midway point between youth and maturity but it will age for several more years. Drink until 2020.
With mint and black fruit aromas, this is a ripe, fruity wood-aged wine. Power and complexity come from the structure and the dark black fruits. Hints of licorice accent the strong tannins and fruit. Drink from 2018.
Ayala specializes in dry Champagnes and this is their extreme example. It has the right amount of bottle age to soften the intense acidity and bring in some toastiness and fruit. It can be drunk now, but a few more months in bottle would make it even better.
Made from organically farmed grapes, this hearty blend of 90% Sangiovese and 10% Canaiolo opens with earthy aromas of violets, iris, mature black fruit and leather. The juicy, ripe palate delivers fleshy black cherry, truffle, tobacco, black pepper and mint alongside solid tannins. It has a meaty, rustic note but it's delicious. Alberello Imports, Ionia Atlantic Imports.
This is a bone-dry, tannic, acidic and tightly wound Cabernet, with a solid core of blackberry aromas and flavors. Stylistically, it plants its flag squarely in favor of elegance, it just needs a little more time to fully integrate.
What this 100% Merlot lacks in subtlety, it makes up for in the sheer power of its fruit. It's rich and spicy in black cherry, milk chocolate, red licorice and oak, after being aged for 20 months in 100% new French barrels. With thick but refined tannins, it's drinkable now.
The vineyard is in the Santa Maria Valley, and has been source for many years of great Pinots for multiple wineries lucky enough to obtain its fruit. The wines always show a similar profile of tannins, brisk acidity, a certain full-bodiedness and plenty of crushed brown spices. In this cool '11 vintage, the wine is particularly tart in cranberries and raspberries. Decant for a few hours before drinking.
The winery's top cuvée is notable for its perfume of rose petals with a subtle whiff of body talc. Balanced and feminine, this soft and graceful wine glides across the palate with flavor highlights of cherries and plums. Drink now while it's at its best.
Technically a Zin blend labeled as Old Vine Wine, Serious is velvety in texture with supple tannins and a complex taste of blueberry compote and cinnamon spice. With a brightness on the finish, it'll age and be interesting with food like venison or other game.
Dryness, acidity and minerality mark this Chardonnay. It's elegant, with Meyer lemon, lime and new French oak flavors that bring a rich note of buttered toast. The score is lifted by the wine's balance. Drink now–2018.
The Napa-ness of this Pinot makes it so interesting. Grown in a warmer climate, it's dry, soft and somewhat herbal, with red currant, cola, tea, cranberry and mushroom notes. It feels complex in the mouth, without the flash and dazzle of more coastal bottlings, but there's a lot going on. Drink now–2017.
It takes a certain trust in the ageability of a young Calera Pinot Noir to appreciate it, as evidenced by this bottling. It's dry and tannic, with acid-inflected raspberry jam and oak flavors that show little in the way of complexity. Yet there are earthy, herbal, minerally depths. Granted that the vintage was difficult, this still is a wine to age. Try after 2017.
Bright and delicious, this starts with aromas of blue flower, red berries, mint and thyme together with a whiff of leather. The juicy palate offers wild cherry and strawberry accented with cinnamon-spice alongside fresh acidity and firm but fine tannins. Drink now through 2016 to capture the fresh, crunchy berry character.
Some bottle age gives a toasty character to the ripe fruit and lively acidity, adding extra complexity to this rich wine. The citrus and apple acidity are woven together in a tight, mature structure.
This firm and structured wine also has full-on ripe, jammy fruits. The combination gives weight, richness and structure. A touch of licorice adds an extra dimension to this fruity, firm wine. Drink from 2017.
In this complex wine, surface fruitiness doesn't mask the firm layers of tannins that give shape and density. It's full of black plum flavors that show a juicy side to what is also a wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2018.
A mix of ripe black fruits and dense tannins characterize this young wine. Its structure is surrounded by rich fruits, smoothly textured and generous. Acidity gives the wine a fresh touch in its aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
Attractive floral aromas of Spanish broom come together with whiffs of pear and mineral. The round but refined palate delivers ripe golden apple, mineral, peach and almond alongside bright acidity. Enjoy now for crisp flavors or hold until 2016 for added complexity.
Juicy flavors of white peach, green apple, pear and exotic fruit team with hints of mineral and white almond. The creamy palate is energized by crisp, quenching acidity that leaves a clean finish.
This 100% Cabernet deserves its reserve status. Compared to the regular 2011, it's richer, with a smoothly tannic mouthfeel framing blackberry, black currant and cedar flavors. It will hold in the bottle until 2018, but there's no reason not to pop the cork now.
This is a powerfully wood-aged wine, rich and smoothly textured. Full of ripe yellow fruits with a hint of lemon and full-bodied, it is still developing. A touch of minerality and a steely edge add interest and further complexity. It needs to age, so wait until 2016.
This is a rich, fruity and juicy wine. Great swathes of blackberry combine with acidity and a solid core of tannins. Full of power, with a dense texture, this already delicious wine has some medium-term aging potential. Drink from 2016.
Dark in color and deeply flavored, as the name suggests, this blend has evocative blackberry, currant, grilled meat, black pepper and oak flavors. It's also tannic, suggesting cellaring until 2019.
A full-bodied wine, it shows strong vanilla flavor from oak aging and a rich, tropical feel. Lime and other citrus fruits give a crisp edge to this rounded wine that has concentration and final fruitiness. Drink from 2015.
Made from Syrah and Grenache, this shows rich, fruity flavors of raspberries, cherries, figs and mocha, but perhaps the best thing is the acidity. It's clean, bright, savory and easy to drink.
The acidity is like a double squeeze of lime juice. It gets the tastebuds whistling, which allowss the intense lemon, lime and mango flavors to spread across the mouth and sink deep into the palate. This zesty wine needs rich fare. Ahi tuna tartare is perfect.
Delicately perfumed with notes of lemon, tart stone fruit and white florals, this off-dry Riesling builds in intensity and ripeness on the palate. It's lushly textured, with flavors of fleshy peach and apricot that are brightened by lemon-lime acidity.
Lushly textured and expansive on the palate, this dry Riesling melds flavors of waxy lemon skins with notes of rich honey and saffron. The acidity is sunny and bright, highlighting hints of tangerine and lime on the finish.
Refreshing aromas of tangerine and lime are laced with petrol on this steely kabinett. Waves of ripe peach and nectarine flavor add delicate sweetness on the palate, accented by savory notes of dried herb and tea leaves. Lemon-lime acidity leads the long finish.
Enticing aromas of blackberry, bramble and wet leaves meld on the nose of this elegant, nuanced Spätburgunder. It's concentrated and juicy, with black cherry flavor, but invigorated by a stream of laser-like acidity that carries through the finish. It ends with a pretty violet accent.
Aromas of Key lime skins and lemon bar cookies hide a slight but typical petrol note on this wine from the San Diego County-based producer. It's slightly sour on the citrusy palate, with balanced acidity and a chalky grip.
Petal pink in the glass, this wine was specifically grown to be a rosé by winemaker David Galzignato. The nose is pretty with bubble gum, strawberry, raspberry and a bit of lime peel, and the palate offers flavors of ruby-red grapefruit and lemon juice, with bright acidity throughout.
Delicious fruit aromas and flavors define this medium bodied and very smooth blend that is 50% Graciano grapes. Aromas convey floral notes, strawberries and oranges, while the flavors bring more strawberries and cherries. The texture is not light but the wine is still extremely easy to sip.
The Central Coast's pioneering sparkling house offers a quite-pink bubbly with aromas of lemonade, yeast, white rocks and ruby-red grapefruit flesh. The palate shows sour strawberry and lime zest.
From a hilltop location near the ocean-influenced town of Freestone, this wine is silky in plum and dark cherry, a hint of mushroomed earth doing its best to come out. Robust on the palate, juicy berry fruit satisfies, finishing thick and rich.
A tremendous value, this white is light and floral, soft in honeyed stone fruit and pineapple. A nice minerality buoys the proceedings, a medium-body taking on new strength midway through before letting the wine finish crisp and clean.
Red currant, vanilla, toasted oak, coffee and chocolate aromas lead the nose and follow through to the dense, full-bodied palate. It's one-dimensional but muscular, with ample, velvety tannins.
Aromas of underbrush, blue flowers, cooking spice and black plum unfold in the glass. A blend of 50% Sangiovese and 50% Malvasia Nera, the palate reveals dried black cherry, black pepper and anise alongside firm, polished tannins. Drink through 2017.
A blend of 60% Merlot and 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, this sleek wine opens with aromas of red currant, bell pepper and herbs. On the juicy palate, notes of white pepper and clove add interest to crushed strawberry and cassis. Tangy acidity and polished tannins provide the framework.
A complex blend of five grapes, this is a textured and fruity wine that is impressively fresh and crisp. Apples, strong citrus and apricots are all present in this tight, mineral wine. Drink from 2016.
This opens with damp, rubbery plum aromas. The palate is spunky and offers live-wire acidity, with cherry, raspberry, toast and pepper flavors balancing it out. Speckled black pepper comes on the dry finish.
Beautifully purple-pink in color, this blend of 46% Mourvèdre, 41% Grenache and 13% Counoise shows smashed plums and watermelon extract on the nose. The acidity hits the palate first as does a grippy white rock minerality, with pomegranate fruits showing rather ripely.
Aromas of vanilla, prune and nutmeg lead the nose on this robust Merlot. The dense, monolithic palate offers raisin, leather and licorice alongside the heat of evident alcohol and drying tannins. It's shy on freshness and fruit richness so drink sooner rather than later.
Round and fruity, this is big, forward and loaded with ripe stone fruit, melon and a finishing lick of citrus. Fresh and lively, it's ready for immediate enjoyment.
While the wine has some concentration from the old vines, its general effect is of a soft, open and generous texture that is full and rounded. There is some spice, a touch of toast and full-bodied blackberry and currant flavors. Drink now.
Concentrated aromas of plum and black currant come with a leathery, earthy accent. Dense, jammy and ripe in feel, this features blackberry, baked plum and chocolate flavors. A licorice note and controlled heat rise up on a powerful finish.
Bruised apricot, lemonade and citrus rind-laden marzipan notes hit the nose on this wine, which is showing just a touch of nutty, honeyed oxidization. The macadamia nut element arises on the palate too, alongside intriguingly peaty flavors reminiscent of Scotch, with almond liqueur on the outro. It presents decent acidity throughout.
This is a dark and concentrated wine, solid with dark plum skin tannins and a dense structure. A fresher side brings in spice and a tense texture of both freshness and acidity. It should age a couple of years more, so drink from 2017. The estate, about 31 miles from Toulouse along the Tarn river, has a well-recorded history of family ownership over many centuries and is now run by the Faramond family.
With its 50% Sémillon, this ripe wine has the potential to be rich. It has a perfumed, fruity character at this stage, emphasizing flowery fruits along with citrus. As it develops, it will fill out comfortably. Drink from 2016.
This rich, full-bodied wine is packed with ripe, dense blackberry and plum flavors. With firm tannins in the background, it is always going to be dark and solid. Produced on a single vineyard by the local cooperative, it could still age and will be best from 2016.
Made entirely from the native grape Ciliegiolo, this offers aromas of violet, allspice and wild red berry. The bright palate doles out wild cherry, crushed raspberry and a hint of clove alongside silky tannins and fresh acidity. It's easygoing and made to be enjoyed young.
Herbal berry aromas come with plastic tones of latex and rubber band. This shows a gritty palate of hard tannins, with peppery, green-leaning, herbal flavors of black currant and black plum. A clampy, heavy finish gives this blend a lumbersome lasting impression.
Aromas of brambly plum and raspberry set up a palate with ripe flavors of black cherry and nutmeg. A baking-spice character carries onto the finish, which turns more soft and candied as it wraps up.
Made entirely with Merlot, this densely extracted wine opens with aromas of toasted oak, black currants and vanilla. The tightly packed palate delivers dried blackberries, tobacco, espresso and licorice alongside raspy wood tannins that leave an astringent finish. It lacks the fruit richness to stand up to the heavy oak influence.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Sangiovese, Merlot and Syrah, this opens with aromas of black currant, pencil shavings, toast and a whiff of pine. Notes of mocha, graphite and anise add depth to the black cherry core alongside chewy but astringent tannins that leave a drying finish. Drink 2016–2018.
Black pepper, anise, boysenberry and a bit of juniper combine for a slightly funky, somewhat reductive nose on this blend of 46% Grenache, 23% Petite Sirah, 23% Syrah, 6% Carignane and 2% Mourvèdre. There's an ample amount of blackberry jam and chopped Italian herbs on the palate, with an asphalt character in the midpalate and a somewhat tart finish.
Earthy aromas of a leather, scratchy plum and a dusty country road lead to a tight feeling, rubbery palate, with flavors of herbs, baked plum and cassis. This is more fruity and ripe than leafy and spicy—overall, it's perfectly enjoyable.
This super-smooth but hearty red blend made from Grenache, Syrah and Mourvèdre smells smoky, meaty and oaky. It tastes savory and a bit peppery before a good dose of ripe, plummy flavor joins in. It feels full-bodied, and almost soft in texture because of light tannins, but has enough acidity to keep an appetizing balance.
Refreshing and full of vitality, this Pinot Gris offsets zesty white grapefruit flavor with a sheen of fresh herb and floral notes. It's a dry, elegant wine, with broad appeal and a youthful vigor that should last through 2016.
Easy berry and plum aromas come across clean and pure. This has a staunch mouthfeel with rubbery, pinching tannins. Earthy, ripe berry and plum flavors turn even riper on the back palate and finish, which lingers in a solid state.
Licorice and blackberry scents float off the surface of this estate wine. Once sipped, a thinner juiciness takes hold, with boysenberry and cracked pepper leading the way.
Fruity and lightly structured, this is a wine for drinking now. It has great juicy fruitiness, soft tannins and an immediately drinkable character, great for barbecues. The wine is named after the Fado Portugal's national music, songs  by seamen longing for home.
Elegant and compact, it offers appealing flavors that call to mind a cherry popsickle—fruity, with palate-cleansing freshness. The wine does a gentle fade, perhaps more quickly than you'd wish.
Firmly tannic and dense, this dry wine is dedicated to the winemakers at Vidigal, the authors in the name of the wine. It has berry fruits under its dark texture, promising more fruit in the next several years. There is a show of wood aging as well as acidity at the end.  Screwcap.
Balanced toward the bold side, it's full-bodied and shows aromas of ripe grapes and sage, accompanied by flavors of cherry and plum. Layers of fine tannin give it grip without bitterness. Tasty cherry and baking spice flavors linger on the finish.
Boysenberry, cracked peppercorn and caramel frame the nose of this rich red. Although not particularly complex, lush flavors of berry juice and espresso on the palate prove rather tasty and enjoyable.
This has aromas of Bartlett pear and black Mission figs. In the mouth, there are flavors of pear, lemon and fresh picked apricots.
Black cherry and vanilla aromas lead this young Merlot. There are big flavors of red plum and cooked black fruits in the midpalate, with balanced acidity on the finish.
Round and soft, it offers apples, citrus and gooseberries enveloped in a full-bodied texture. An edge of steely background suggests it's a wine for some aging, so wait until 2015.
While the aromas scream herbaceous, the palate is more subdued and rounded. That gives space for the citrus to mingle with green apple skin and white peach flavors. It's very fruity and ready to drink.
A blend of 73% Petite Sirah with 17% Zinfandel, this is a black, inky wine, as to be expected, from Spring Mountain's longstanding York Creek Vineyard. Dusty, earthy and mouthfilling, it is out and out savory. Tastes of black pepper and gamy oak lead to a lingering finish marked by more peppery spice.
Hanzell took on a new barrel regime with the 2011 vintage, opening the door to several different coopers to taste over time. Additionally in 2011, the Pinot grapes came from both the Sessions and de Brye vineyards. The wine is marked by a bouquet of baked strawberry and cherry, the layers interwoven in oak and dust.
Made with organically grown grapes, it features a levity of citrus at its heart, a celebration of crisp grapefruit and lime. Dry and midweight, it has texture and a pleasant, long-lasting finish.
Racy, zesty aromas of honey and squeezed orange form the nose of this still-tight wine, a blend of 62% Grenache Blanc and 38% Rousanne from a vineyard at the mouth of the Arroyo Seco appellation. The crisp palate offers pear and apple cider flavors with a finish of honeydew melon. A perfect pairing for halibut and shellfish.
Crisp, dry and fresh, this is a lively and fruity wine. It's lightly textured, tangy and clean as a whistle. Drink now.
As pale as any Provence rosé, this fresh and fragrant wine is delicious. It's crisp in apple and red berry fruits, light and fresh at the end. The aftertaste is as bright as the rest of the wine. Drink now.
Just off-dry, this fruity and creamy wine has a touch of honey to go on top of the melon and baked apple flavors. Great acidity makes the wine refreshing and brings out the bright fruitiness. Drink now.
A concentrated wine, it's packed with both dark fruits and tannins. A dense structure contrasts with the fresher black currant fruitiness. Ripe and full-bodied, the wine needs to age. Drink from 2016.
Thirst-quenching, lean and tangy, it would make a good match with shucked oysters. It shows lemon and green apple aromas, plus fresh and crisp citrus flavors. Medium in body, the texture is pleasantly lean while the finish is refreshing.
Pine and other green-leaning aromas blend with lychee and exotic soapy scents to lay the path for a round palate with tropical flavors of lychee, melon and star anise. The finish is full, citrusy and generous.
There's a burly amount of black fruit and black tea in this estate wine, concentrated and coiled in a tight tannic structure. The fruit tends toward ripe black cherry and even blackberry, the texture is soft and the finish delightfully marked by a touch of chocolate.
Exotic and exuberant on the nose, this packs scents of peppercorn, crystalized ginger, flower and white peach cobbler. Medium in weight, the midpalate feels fleshy and fit, with balanced acids that drive the concentrated finish.
The nose on this earthy wine offers up game, dark berry, plum and a hint of barnyard. The palate is still somewhat closed but reveals crushed red cherry, toast and espresso alongside drying tannins. Drink after 2020.
Earthy, ripe, slightly flat aromas of black fruits define the nose on this dense Toro. Soft, mellow, quiet flavors of blackberry and raisin finish rich, loamy and with a note of prune. Drink this ripe, fairly sweet-tasting wine now.
Oak, density and medicinal berry aromas are the three most prominent characteristics on the nose of this carbonic macerated Tempranillo. In the mouth, it's full and a bit grabby. Flavors of smoky oak and hickory vie with black-fruit tastes, while the finish is firm and dry, with residual woodiness.
Floral, stony red-fruit aromas are the right set up for a tight, almost citric feeling palate. Flavors of cherry and red plum are narrow and quick-hitting, while the finish is bright, juicy and runs on acidity. This demands food; it's raw by itself.
This modern Rioja opens with sweet, jammy, raisiny aromas and spice. The palate is cumbersome, with tomatoey acidity providing spine. Baked dark-fruit flavors show a leathery, spicy side, while the finish is full, grabby and tannic, with notes of prune and rubber. 70% Tempranillo and 30% Graciano.
Minty, scratchy aromas of cherry and berry air out well. This feels chewy yet fresh in the mouth, with plum and cherry flavors matched by good overall intensity and balance. A controlled finish tastes dusty and loamy; drink through 2017.
Aromatic layers of golden apple and pear, beeswax and toasty brioche lead to an ample, concentrated palate, which comes threaded with glowing acids.
This structured rosé has a firm character, with tannins as well as fruit. It's crisp, while also full-bodied, full of ripe red fruits. A steely edge adds to the structure, making this an excellent partner for food.
Brilliant, pure fruit flavors light up this full-bodied but easy-to-drink wine. Cherry, strawberry and something deeper like black currant dance through the aromas and coat the tongue with their richness. The texture is smooth and plush due to fine tannins and mild acidity.
Dark shades of bramble and smoked nuts lend a shadowy mystique to this unusual Schwartzriesling, otherwise known as Pinot Meunier. Full bodied yet elegant, the palate boasts tart blackberry and raspberry flavors framed in finely grained tannins. A rare chance to experience this grape as a single varietal wine.
Composed berry, spice, herb and oak aromas are complete and inviting. In the mouth, this is ripe and dense, with chewy tannins. Blackberry, mixed herb and dark chocolate flavors are integrated, while this settles nicely on the finish.
Crisp and young, this wine, from 50-year-old vines, is tangy and strongly mineral in texture. It is full of fresh fruit that reflects the of organic and biodynamic farming. The green fruits will fill out as it ages. Drink from 2017.
Light herb aromas and vivid apple flavors make this medium-bodied wine delicious, while the tangy, nervy texture keeps the mouth tingling. It has great balance, concentration and length on the finish.
Dark in color, this bold, full-bodied wine is succulent and rich in blackberry and black cherry, with a dusting of cranberry and grilled mushroom. There's a balance of acid and tannin that provides substance and structure, with length on the finish.
This big and dry wine is a nice change of pace. The wine looks dark, smells deep and tastes full bodied and firm textured. It doesn't have the overripe or semisweet character of many Zins, but instead is rather tannic and even mildly astringent like strong tea, and has lip smacking cranberry and raspberry flavors.
Quite buttery and nutty on the nose, this wine shows Marcona almonds, seared pineapple, crème brûlée and vanilla custard. Those elements meet with smart amounts of acid and texture on each creamy, buttery, pineapple-laced sip, which then finishes on marshmallow flavors.
Oceanic aromas of grass, scallion, baby garlic and lime reflect cool-coast origins. A slick, juicy mouthfeel is minerally, while this offers flavors of nettle, lime, passion fruit and green onion. A long, stony finish leans towards green flavors.
Fresh cracked peppercorn, dense black and purple fruit and a cedar tone carry through the nose of this lavish yet nuanced bottling from a South Coast winery that practices extended aging before release. The elderberry fruit is hung on a strong tannic structure, bolstered by woody cigar box, incense, juniper and espresso flavors.
Faded yellowish pink in color, this bottling by vintner Richard Sanford and winemaker Nick de Luca shows baking soda, squeezed lemon, sour raspberry and a touch of maraschino cherry on the nose. The palate offers lighter strokes of nectarine and chalky clay notes.
From vines more than 90-years-old, this is a refreshingly restrained and elegant wine, earthy in grilled mushroom and cherry-berry juiciness, braced in firm acidity. Cocoa and nutmeg provide compelling seasonings that linger on the finish.
The debut release for this producer is a bright garnet shade. Exhuberant and broad, the palate is bursting with cranberry, blue plum and Bing cherry flavors. Drink over the next year or two, while it is at its freshest.
Inviting aromas of baked blueberries are leveled by crushed asphalt and dried herbs on the refined nose of this bottling. Stewed strawberry and red plum flavors are elegantly cut by more crushed stone, dried spearmint and a touch of sweet tobacco, all held together by grippy tannins.
A bit lighter in color than other Rhône blends, certainly due to the 40% Counoise (and bolstered by 36% Mourvèdre and 24% Grenache), this offers a punchy red-currant, orange-rind and chaparral-scrub nose. Fresh cracked black pepper, cranberry-orange-plum juice and a rich earthy tone show on the palate.
Steel and stones are brightened by tones of lemon and grapefruit in this dry-style wine. It's medium bodied but texturally quite rich, lending a satisfying sensation of volume that adds impact to the finish.
From a former Kosta Browne winemaker comes this very dark Syrah, which shows still-wound-up aromas of elderberry, black coffee, white pepper and a touch of game. There are rich soy and beef notes once sipped, packaged by dense tannins and zesty acidity, with more elderberry, beef char and crushed slate emerging with time. Still young.
The closed nose leads onto a compact palate that mixed red cherry notes with sandalwood oak spice. This is elegant and evolves beautifully in the glass. It will sing with earthy mushroom dishes.
Young vines, planted in 2007, give a fresh, fruity wine with attractive citrus and zingy orange flavors. It is ripe and deliciously perfumed with a touch of minerality and saltiness. Drink from 2019.
What jumps out immediately is a bright spicy scent. The forward fruit is a zesty mix of cranberry, guava and citrus, and the flavors just punch up the palate in a most delicious way. Drink this over the next couple of years while it retains its freshness.
In this wine, red berries and currants burst out of the glass. These are balanced with apple and citrus acidity to give a wine that is all about delicious fruit and refreshing acidity. Drink now.
The most reserved of this winery's Grenache studies, this bottling shows baked red cherry, red currant, cola and slate on the nose. An iron-based minerality shows on the earthy palate, which also offers chipped slate, cranberry and tart cherry elements. It's a tad light but still intriguingly textured.
Damaged by hail in 2013, the vineyards yielded low quantities. The grapes harvested produced a wine with crisp red fruits and bright berry acidity. The fresh, tight aftertaste suggests the wine will age. Drink from 2019.
From Old Wente clones grown on the famous vineyard, this full-bodied, textured wine shows ripe elements of golden honey, Gravenstein apple and toasted vanilla oak. Along the way, it flirts nicely with pear and marzipan, finishing in balanced minerality.
Plump, waxy aromas of baked apple and lanolin are complex and proprietary to Garnacha Blanca. This feels full and creamy, with moderate but present acidity. Slightly bitter, peppery stone-fruit flavors fold in a note of papaya and vanilla. A steady finish is healthy and balanced.
This wine comes from one of the best vineyard sites in Savigny-lès-Beaune, on the slope closest to Beaune. It is a smooth, perfumed and ripe wine that has a balanced structure under the bright red-cherry flavor. Still bursting with young fruit, the wine will age, so wait to drink until 2019.
When a rosé pushes past 14% alcohol, that's an indication of a pretty potent wine. Here's a fine example, showcasing ripe strawberry and peach fruit, with excellent concentration and mouth-filling flavors. Using all free-run juice, this is fresh and full-bodied.
Lemon freshness encounters some honeyed richness. There's a hint of pleasant bitterness of honeycomb on the flavor, while the palate is streamlined with zesty lemon freshness. These create an intriguing and successful counterpoint on the dry, slender but expressive body.
Gentle spice and redcurrant notes promise a subtle wine. The palate does not disappoint and sings with translucent, light-footed elegance. This is all about charm and ease, about chiffon rather than velvet. Crisp freshness brightens and lightens everything. It's a mere whiff of a wine but a delicious one.
Summer fruit and fresh ripeness dominate: think red apple, yellow plum and breezy lemon freshness. This wine is really uplifting, light, fresh and friendly: it paints a picture of summer aperos under open skies. Drink soon.
This 100% Furmint offers scents reminiscent of yellow peach, vanilla and caramelized pineapple upside-down cake. In the mouth, there are bright flavors of green apple and gooseberry.
A dense, leathery, richly stylized wine from a great vineyard site, this offers thick layers of dark chocolate, blueberry and plum. Integrated in terms of oak and tannin, it delivers concentration and power, capped off on the finish in a shot of cigar.
Fronds of leafy herb and violet perfume align in this vibrantly composed Cabernet Franc. It's equal parts earthy and fruity, showcasing ripe black cherry and plum flavors etched by savory shades of mineral and soil. Fine, penetrating tannins squarely frame the finish of this red.
From a small, 15-acre property, this wine is ripe, rich and full of yellow fruits along with crisp apples, with a tight texture that needs to develop. It is crisply structured, zesty and mineral in character. Give this juicy, delicious wine until 2017 before drinking.
This outgoing and full-bodied wine has a lot going for it. Fruity, enticing aromas lead to fully ripe flavors that suggest plums and fresh strawberries, with a suave and supple texture.
This Oregon-based producer has sourced Petaluma Gap grapes to craft a light, clear and somewhat smoky and full-bodied expression of the variety. It's dense and rich in black cherry, currant and cola-vanilla.
This is an estate-grown, co-fermented field blend of Zin with Cabernet Franc, Alicante Bouschet, Petite Sirah, Grand Noir de Calmette, Peloursin, Lenoir, Merlot and Mourvèdre made in a small amount. Powerful tannin and leather are the stars, along with flavors of cigar, black pepper, cherry and orange.
Aromas of wild berry, leather, sunbaked earth, star anise and a balsamic note of menthol lift out of the glass. The robust, powerful palate offers fleshy blackberry, wild cherry, cinnamon, nutmeg and tobacco alongside chewy tannins. Despite the juicy fruit, there's a warmth of alcohol on the finish but it doesn't dominate.
Made with 90% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Cabernet Franc, this boasts aromas of black currant, mature plum, black pepper and clove. The ripe palate delivers fleshy black cherry, blackberry, licorice and Mediterranean brush accompanied by firm, fine-grained tannins.
Deep ruby red to the eye, this red wine has a nose of cherry, pomegranate and lemon peel. It comes on bright, offering flavors of cherry, peach, eucalyptus, rose petal and pencil lead. Velvety tannins coat the palate into a finish that is a luscious mélange of cherry and orange zest with a touch of mint.
This wine is a field blend of 80% Zinfandel, with 10% Petite Sirah, 6% Alicante Bouschet and 4% other mixed black grapes. High-toned in plum and dark cherry, it's bright while also being plush and juicy. This is a small-production offering from a fairly cool area for the grape.
This blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Saperavi and 5% Rara Neagra has aromas of red raspberry, violet candy and black cherry. There are flavors of cherry vanilla and pomegranate with soft tannins and an elegant finish.
This wine has a compelling earthy funkiness that's both varietal and fun, a tangle of red fruit, sassafras and cardamom that's light and bright. It makes a great companion to food.
Forest floor, mature berry, scorched soil and a whiff of new leather lead the nose. The palate shows dried black cherry, mocha, cinnamon and clove alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. A licorice note closes the finish.
Berry, herb and baking spice aromas lead the nose. The palate brings fleshy plum, cherry and coffee flavors that linger on the finish. This wine provides great easy-drinking appeal.
The aromas of earth, char and dark berries are alluring. The flavors are rich but never lose their deftness.
This is a robust, full-bodied and sultry wine, one within the producer's single-vineyard series, from a well-known and respected site. Oak and candied black cherry sit atop an abundance of cola spice and earthy truffle, promising more to come as it opens in the glass.
Big and chewy, this opens with aromas that recall leather, truffle, scorched earth and ripe plum. The brawny palate offers dried black cherry, raspberry jam, licorice and a gamy note alongside a tannic backbone. The heat of evident alcohol marks the finish. Loaded with rustic charm, it has more power than complexity.
The cherry, herb and barrel spice aromas are quite brooding at present. The fruit flavors are all about elegance of expression, showing pleasing complexities and plenty of hang time on the finish.
Coffee, toast, nut, forest floor and fleshy plum aromas waft out of the glass. The big, round palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry jam, licorice and chopped herb alongside ripe, loosely knit tannins. It's straightforward for a Brunello but it has a juicy, immediate appeal. Drink now through 2020.
The fact that this variety is still in the ground in the county says something; the fact that's it's still in the confines of Pagani Ranch says even more. In this ode to generations gone by, the grower and winemaker find common ground in showcasing a big-bodied, black-purple expression of fig, plum and grippy leather that lands softly on the palate.
This Bulgarian Pinot Noir offers the nose black and red cherries and dried violets. It is well balanced in the mouth with soft, rounded tannins and flavors of dark cherry, cranberry and dried Mediterranean herbs.
There are not many châteaux in Sancerre—this is one of only four. Surrounding the building, vines produce this fresh, crisp and tightly fruity wine that has a strong minerality along with a lively, tangy character. The wine is attractive already, although it will be better from 2017.
Tire rubber, herb and locked-up barrel spice notes are followed by bountiful yet elegant black fruit flavors that show a spot on sense of balance along with exquisite length. There's no hiding the warm vintage it comes from but it shows the year well.
This opens with aromas that suggest leafy underbrush, scorched earth, star anise, steeped plum and a whiff game. The chewy palate offers up blackberry jam, fleshy black cherry, vanilla, licorice and a hint of a confectionary note alongside tightly packed, ripe tannins. Wait until 2019, then drink up.
From a parcel of 25-year-old vines, this is a concentrated, firm wine that needs to age. It has good potential with its tight, steely character and smoky edge. The fruitiness comes from the organic and biodynamic grapes that give richness as well as a final fresh, crisp aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
The name of the wine (land of the angels) is inspired by the fact that monks first planted the slope. More prosaically, it is a delightful wine, fresh and crisp with tight acidity that promises to soften to bring out the citrus and ripe pear flavors. Drink from 2017.
Ripe and creamy, this has rich pear and apple fruits lightly cut by more lemon flavors. The wine is fruity, textured with minerality and still young. Drink from 2017.
Produced from organic and biodynamic grapes, this wine is tangy and crisp, a perfect model for white Sancerre. With its bright apple and ripe pear flavors, it's bursting with fruit and lifted by acidity that has just the right intensity. Drink now.
This opens with aromas of forest floor, truffle, ripe berry, leather, crushed blue flower and a whiff of herb. The medium-bodied, concentrated palate offers juicy Marasca cherry, raspberry, cinnamon and nutmeg alongside integrated tannins that give the finish grip. Drink 2018–2024.
Ivy leaf and ripe, green pear notes make up this wine's enticing nose. The palate brims with juicy pear and citrus, feeling concentrated, lively and moreish. Dry and streamlined with citrus, it also layers pear and peach fruit before finishing with lip-smacking citrus zest.
Dark cherry and cola aromas meld with composting rose scents on the nose of this pleasing wine that will satisfy any lover of Pinot Noir. The palate exudes nutmeg, iron and rose flavors galore, adding spice to its core of plump raspberry and ripe cranberry fruit. Lively acidity and tannic depth complete the experience.
A hearty swirl in the glass wakes up this wine's aroma, showing lemon balm, cress and green pear. Those fresh flavors also play on the lithe palate, where yeasty savoriness is enhanced by lemony spritz. It's totally zippy and refreshing, with far more concentration than is at first apparent, proving it needs time to breathe.
This is the reserve-level Pinot Gris, comprised of lots from five different vineyards. Juicy, succulent and quite tart fruit flavors emphasize fresh apples and pears, lightly dusted with cinnamon spice. The concentration and lingering finish prove it worthy of its reserve status.
Plump and succulent, the 2015 Hunting Hill displays attractive notes of hickory smoke and white peach, underscored by the suggestion of citrus custard. Like all of the 2015 Chardonnays from Kumeu River, it shows great length and intensity.
Toasty blackberry and prune are the key aromas on this plush Cabernet. A generous mouthfeel includes choppy tannins that will mellow in due time. Dark flavors of cassis and blackberry include spice and chocolate notes, while this finishes with ripe flavors of blackberry touched up by chocolaty oak. Drink this calm, slightly flabby Cab through 2021.
Earth, leather and strong but quality oak notes accent berry-fruit aromas. Cheek-sucking tannins make for a rugged mouthfeel. Spicy, peppery berry flavors are fully oaked and toasty, while this tastes dry and minty on the finish. Grilled meat and/or a few years on its side is what this needs. Drink through 2025.
Consistently one of New Zealand's top Chardonnay producers, Neudorf flies the standard for Nelson, almost next door to better-known Marlborough. The medium-bodied 2014 Chardonnay begins with appetizing scents of toast, oak spice and white peach. On the palate, there's a lovely combination of spice and stone fruit, then lingering citrus on the finish. Drink now–2020.
This bottling from McMurray Vineyard at Rancho Sisquoc packs all of the beloved Syrah characteristics: ripe plum, blackberry and blueberry fruit, a vanilla-laced oaky frame and underlying hints of lavender and pepper. The palate offers herb and pepper touches, underscoring its black fruit and caramel flavors.
Lovely, herb-tinged fragrance—as fresh as aloe vera and as aromatic as fig leaf—jumps out of the glass in this wine. The palate contributes yeasty earthiness and concentration, all highlighted by freshness and verve. The finish is clean and zesty.
This elegantly structured wine is a wonderful expression of Sauvignon's serious side, offering delicate yellow stone fruit, wildflower and toasted nut scents. On the polished, full-bodied palate, a hint of nectarine backs up creamy yellow peach fruit while fresh acidity lends balance.
Named after César the sculptor and not Caesar the Roman emperor, the wine has a strongly herbal character that seems to come from the superripe fruit as well as the landscape around Monte Sainte-Victoire. It is certainly rich, although the acidity balances out the spice and pepper character. Drink now.
The Audibert family estate, close to beautiful Aix-en-Provence, is now run organically. The wine, rich and with delicious ripe fruits, is full in the mouth, packed with red-berry flavors that are cut with red currants and lemon zest. It is a very fine wine, ready now.
This is a rich wine, packed with red-berry fruits. Despite its density and ripe fruits, it has a fine streak of acidity that keeps it lively and crisp. It comes from vines close to the Mediterranean, resulting a slightly salty character as well as the warm feel to this food-friendly wine. Drink from late 2017.
Aromatic and lushly scented with rhubarb, strawberry, cola, root beer and cocoa powder, this is immediately accessible, and yet structured to age if you can keep your hands off of it. Streaks of beet root sneak in around raspberry and cherry fruit, with firm tannins and highlights of toast, coffee, caramel and dark chocolate. This is a very fine cuvée that seems to gain focus as it rolls through the finish.
A warm but fresh green and yellow pear peel scent on the nose gains even more currency on the palate of this wine. The midpalate exudes a savory, yeasty, textural element that provides structure and interest, yet the finish is very fresh.
Waves of purple floral fragrance meld with soy, blackberry and roast lamb on the nose of this complex and compelling bottling. It's quite soft on the palate, with black plum and hoisin sauce flavors accenting its core of dried purple fruit, black pepper and bacon fat. The finish offers a touch of maple syrup.
Made from the native Sirica grape, this young red opens with wild berry and black pepper aromas. The smooth, vibrant palate offers a great combination of fruit and spice, doling out juicy Morello cherry, crushed raspberry and clove flavors, bolstered by polished tannins. Drink through 2020.
Foley's Chardonnays always manage to be both extremely tense yet flavorful—a combination that will please many palates. This bottling recalls grapefruit, mandarin pith and Asian pear on the nose, its nervy, mineral-driven palate awash with chalk and wet slate notes. It all finishes on a pleasing twist of lime.
Undergrowth, truffle, black-skinned berry and exotic spice aromas meld with balsamic notes. Rounded and chewy, the palate doles out fleshy black cherry, blackberry extract, cinnamon, licorice and chopped mint flavors, enveloped in velvety tannins. A hint of carob closes the finish. Drink through 2024.
This is one of the vintage's knockout rosés, thanks in part to the Grenache and Gamay grapes that make up the blend. It's pale pink in color, with supple lime pith, strawberry, chalk and melon aromas. The palate is tense with structure, its bubblegum and lemon peel flavors riding a wave of acidity that persists long into the finish.
Tropical pineapple and guava flavors are restrained and balanced in this bright, soft and seductively smooth vineyard designate. Its high-toned acidity delivers stone and lemon peel characteristics, finding more citrus-tinged focus on the finish.
This wine is 53% Merlot and 47% Cabernet Sauvignon. Pleasing aromas of spices, herb, moist earth, cedar and cherry lead to a dazzling mouthful of cherry and strawberry flavors that show distinctive purity. It's a heart-stopper and an outrageous value.
From a small 19-acre estate, this is a fruity and juicy blend of Braucol and the still rare Prunelard. It has a tannic stalky edge that suggests the wine can still develop. This serious concentrated wine was made in egg-shaped cement tanks and is from organic grapes. Drink from 2019.
Dusty toffee and dried stone-fruit aromas are pure and inviting. This is ultra crisp and fresh, with ripping acidity. Flavors of toffee, salted peanuts and sharp-leaning dry white fruits finish racy and with precision. This is a classic complex amontillado purchased from the cellar of Manuel Cuevas Jurado.
Soft and supple on the palate, this impressive wine is lightly spiced with dust and clove, its tannins rounded and in support of lingering cassis and red cherry flavors. Mocha and tobacco lend additional depth and complexity as it unfolds, punctuated by juicy acidity.
Lovely tart cranberry and just-ripe blueberry appear on the nose. The palate presents similarly appetizing crunchy red fruit that's pure and unpretentiously delicious, spiced with cinnamon and white pepper and brimming with freshness and verve. Don't let the light body deceive you; this has depth and will develop. Drink now–2025.
Pure and vibrant dark and red cherry notes create an irresistible nose. The palate displays the same, invitingly juicy fruit. This is supple, slender, fresh and plump, with a joyful, balanced ripeness. Its tannins are smooth and ripe, ready to enjoy.
This block selection hews closer to more conventional Oregon Pinots than the rest of the winery's portfolio, with powerful focused black-cherry fruit at its heart. It was fermented with native yeast and spent 17 months in barrel, 12% new. Those flavors come through in deft touches of graham cracker and cocoa powder, underscored with a wet-cement minerality.
This wine's nose is still closed, but its palate presents velvety, cinnamon- and vanilla-tinged black cherry fruit. The tannic structure acts like a velvet grip around its pleasantly fruit-dense core. That richness is countered by freshness in a package that's sure to give lots of pleasure through 2022.
Dark in color and offering opulent aromas of crème brûlée and marshmallow, this vineyard-designate is marked by its wealth of orange blossom aromas, an inviting, floral entry. While it exudes richness on the nose, it remains much more restrained and dry on the palate, finishing with leanness and length.
Estate-grown Viognier makes up the majority of this blend, followed by 25% Roussanne and 22% Marsanne. Delicate, the aromas lean floral and tart, a combination of peaches and honey that build into an oaky, powerful finish.
Sanguine in red plum, clove and dark chocolate, this bottle-aged, full-bodied wine is impressive and still quite ripe and robust. The tannins are prominent and supported by a girth of oak, with a dense, concentrated finish.
Woodland berry, pressed violet, dark cooking spice, truffle and new leather aromas unfold on this brawny wine. The full-bodied palate doles out ripe black cherry, ground pepper, licorice and tobacco accompanied by velvety tannins. It closes on notes of menthol and the warmth of alcohol. Drink 2018–2028.
Aromas of toasted oak, mocha and a whiff of coconut oak lead the nose while the firm palate offers dark cherry, espresso, dried sage and a hint of anise. The tightly wound tannins still pack youthful sharpness and need a few more years to soften up. Drink after 2021.
Complexity and varietal character come through in this concentrated, well-balanced and smoothly polished wine. It is full bodied and lightly tannic, but so oozing with flavors that it's still easy to sip. The array of black plum, light sage, and black olive flavors is accented with very light oak.
This wine has a bouquet of cassis, violet and black pepper. Well-integrated flavors of cassis, strawberry preserves, anise, fennel bulb and lavender are set amid silky tannins that feel as if they may go on forever but are surpassed at the finish when fruit flavors pull out all the stops.
This spent 18 months in 50% new French oak, which underscores its pretty berry/cherry fruit with a vein of dark chocolate. Dr Pepper and spicy herbs decorate a solid midpalate that flows into a lengthy finish with confectionary highlights.
Full bodied, buttery and spicy in aroma and oaky in flavor, this wine has a big, bold personality from the first whiff through the lingering finish. Complexity and body are its strong suits rather than fruitiness.
This is a producer always to consider for Rhône-styled wines. A mix of strawberry pie and Nilla wafer, this 100% varietal wine is robust and full bodied. Structured with plenty of tangy acidity, it'll stand up to cellaring or a decant. Drink now through 2021.
Succulent in red cherry and cassis, this wine has a surprising level of depth and grip. It finds its way with integrated tannins, soft layers of caramelized oak and a brightness of fruit and acidity.
A twist of clove, fig and chocolate figure into this powerful, concentrated wine, with baked plum, tobacco and maple taking on secondary roles. It's full bodied and thick, so pair appropriately. It finishes in black pepper.
A red-violet color, this wine has a bouquet of blackberry, lilac and pencil lead with a whiff of iodine. A network of velvety tannins and a vein of bold acidity are equally weighted, wrapped around flavors of blackberry, blueberry, black pepper, rose petal and Mediterranean herbs, with bright fruit persisting into the pleasing finish.
Deep garnet to the eye, this wine has a nose of strawberry and tart cherry with a hint of resin. Flavors of cherry, pomegranate, eucalyptus, anise and a soft touch of leather are suspended in a web of well-moderated tannins. Expect a lasting sense of coolness with a burst of brightness on the finish.
Inky violet-red in the glass, this wine has a fruit-forward nose of black cherry and strawberry. There is a good balance of acidity and tannins amidst flavors of black cherry, raspberry, caramel and orange zest. The perception of light spice remains on the tongue after the gentle finish.
This low-alcohol rosé spent five months in neutral oak, yielding additional complexity and an appealing creaminess to the finish. Strawberry and cherry flavors are accompanied by lighter hints of peaches and sweet spices. It's a thoroughly modern, delicious rosé.
Aromas of toast, grilled herb and red berry lead the nose along with a whiff of fresh mint. The palate is still primary; offering bright Morello cherry, white pepper, anise, clove and hint of tobacco while a dried sage note closes the finish. Bracing tannins and brisk acidity provide the framework. Drink after 2020.
This is definitely a light vintage for this vineyard-designate. It deftly mixes cranberry and raspberry fruit with hints of wet stone. Proportionate, drying tannins line the finish.
Long extended veins of bramble and dried herb lend depth to this intensely concentrated Spätburgunder. Youthful and primary, the palate bursts of rich black cherry and berry, but soft tannins and brisk acidity invigorate the finish. It's luscious and forward yet refined. Drink now through 2020.
Raspberry, plum and cherry aromas are light, pure and fully inviting, with nothing off-putting. This tastes bright and balanced, with cherry and berry flavors that are impossible not to like. A dash of oaky cocoa blends with leftover red fruit flavors on a nice finish.
Winemaker Nick Goldschmidt does wonders with this consistent vineyard source, coaxing out mocha-chocolate, black cherry and blackberry, never overpowering an earthy back note of tobacco. Medium-bodied and soft, it finishes in a swirl of smoke and is juicy and enjoyable now.
Enticing notes of brioche and baker's yeast waft from this brut-style Riesling Sekt. It's perfumed and floral, yet elegantly composed, drenching the palate in waves of fresh grapefruit and lime. Piercing and pristine, it finishes with crystalline precision.
A few swirls of the glass release engaging aromas of baking spice, red berry, rose and a whiff of tar. The linear, elegantly structured palate boasts bright wild cherry, white pepper, cinnamon and a mineral note alongside vibrant acidity and assertive but refined tannins. It's still rather austere but should blossom into a beauty after a few more years in the cellar. Enjoy after 2019.
Compact aromas of red berries get a boost from oak-based coconut, cedar and graphite notes. This is a blend of three Malbec vineyards of varying elevations; it's bursting with acidity, while high-toned plum and currant flavors are a touch salty. A lively, fiery finish is fueled by latent acidity. Drink through 2020.
Aromas of toast, espresso, ripe berry and menthol lead the nose. The round, savory palate doles out juicy black cherry, blackberry, clove, chopped herb and game alongside chewy tannins. A coffee note closes the finish.
Lifted honeysuckle and jasmine perfume abound throughout this textbook Mosel Kabinett. Sun-kissed apricots and peaches burst on the palate, yet maintain a graphite edge of minerality and acidity. It's a crystalline fruity wine that's irresistible now for its youthful exuberance.
Red berry, dried rose, truffle and a hint of scorched earth aromas come together on this solid, no-frills Barolo. The straightforward palate delivers wild cherry, ripe strawberry and a hint of cake spice alongside firm, ripe tannins and fresh acidity. Drink 2016–2021.
Wild berries, from elderberry to salmonberry to mountain strawberries, are in play in this wine. The underpinning scents suggest earth and wet cement, while in the finish a strong flavor of breakfast tea lingers. This is an interesting addition to the Sineann lineup.
From what is now an estate property, once known as the Nugent Vineyard, Winside is brawny and brooding in wild strawberry compote, dark plum, blackberry and an inviting lushness. High-toned acidity keeps it from becoming overly dense on the palate. Strong tannin on the finish reflects a high-tannin vintage overall.
This bright and spicy wine refreshes with palate-cleansing minerality. The crisp, fresh-cut pear and apple fruit carries hints of orange liqueur. Drink this while it's in the bloom of youth.
This is a soft wine that has plenty of red-berry fruits, bright acidity and a light fruity texture. It is dry although the softness gives it an apparent sweetness. Drink now.
The volatiles are amped up here, providing distraction from the cherry and spice aromas. It's a shame as the palate delivers plenty of plump lightly sweet cherry flavors.
A blend of grapes mainly from the Beaujolais region, this is soft, with cherry fruit and bright acidity. It has an attractive, easy character that makes it ready to drink now.
This is a perfumed, ripe wine. It has black fruit, soft tannins, a light character that emphasizes bright fruit and a juicy aftertaste. Drink now.
Horsey plum and pie cherry aromas include a whiff of latex gloves and Band-Aid. This feels rather raw and acidic, with bite. Salty sharp red-fruit flavors finish herbal, with tartaric shear.
This light-bodied wine from a cool vintage wine shows jammy raspberry with hints of leather on the nose. It may have already peaked.
Produced in eastern Alentejo, near Spain, this light and soft wine is easy and drinkable. It has a smooth texture, just hinting at lemony acidity. Drink now.
The volatiles are quite amped on this wine. It makes it a struggle to get at the tart black cherry flavors.
A light, almost thin wine, this hints at green fruit, white stone fruits and mineral texture. Drink now for its fruitiness and crisp aftertaste.
This is an attractive, warm, rounded wine. Yellow fruit flavors are cut with white fruit and acidity. It has a smooth, creamy texture that gives it extra richness. Drink now.
This soft, light wine boasts crisp fruit and acidity. It has a touch of bitterness, with almond and tight citrus flavors, and is ready to drink.
High-acid red wine is not for everyone, but this one—dry, stalky and light—is a genuine example of a wine that has always had a following in northern Portugal, great for pairing with fresh sardines. Think that way, and it's more than just a curiosity.
Wiry herbal aromas of blueberry and currant lead to an acidic citrusy palate that's choppy and a bit rough. Quick-hitting plum and currant flavors are herbal before hollowing out on a zesty, tannic finish.
This is a soft rosé with ripe strawberry fruits and light acidity. A Bordeaux-style blend of the two Cabernets and a dominance of Merlot has produced a caramel and fruit-flavored wine that is ready to drink.
This soft fruity wine has a candied character. It is light, crisp and ready to drink. Produced from Malbec, it just hints at the tannins natural to the grape, preferring fruitiness and acidity. Drink now.
This light-colored wine is attractively perfumed but with a grassy edge that suggests the fruit was underripe. Built for the short term, it will be ready from late 2017.
This is a soft and crisp wine that shows attractive, tangy orange flavor and has plenty of acidity to keep it as fresh as possible. Drink now.
This blend of Bical and Cercial is toasty and dominated by its wood aging. Wood-derived spice notes cover its crisper green fruits.
This is a soft, fruity and easy wine. With simple tannins and black currant fruit laced with spice, it's made to be drunk now.
Cherry and cassis notes provide a touch of brighness on the nose and palate of this blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 28% Cabernet Franc, 26% Petit Verdot and 6% Malbec, but its plum-raisin backdrop and dullness on the finish suggest it might be going downhill.
Rudimentary aromas of lemon-lime and apple set up a flat palate. This tastes of dried apricots before turning decidedly bitter. On the finish, flavors of dried white fruits are modest.
Flat and fruitless up front, this smells a bit like a haystack. Plump on the palate, with a sense of grape skins to the mouthfeel, this tastes yeasty, mildly bitter and of nonspecific white fruits.
Sour fruit, funky root beer, dried salami and asphalt aromas show on the nose of this rustic bottling. Dried fruit and espresso flavors mark the palate.
This soft, robustly ripe wine shows a raisin-like prune character, tasting somewhat chalky on the palate.
This is a thin, unfussy wine that imparts bell pepper and asparagus in a sea of green flavor.
High in ripeness and intensity, this vineyard designate overpowers with astringency as it plows through a wall of blackberry jam and chocolate flavors.
This sweet sparkling rosé is clean and crisp. It has attractive strawberry fruit, soft texture and a light mousse. Drink now.
An unusual earthy, herbal character dominates the mild fruitiness and marzipan character of this medium-bodied, slightly sweet wine.
Sweet and fruity, this canned wine feels soft and syrupy, with sugary pear as the primary flavor on the palate. It's a basic white wine in a convenient package.
Raisiny aromas lack freshness and lift. Following that lead, this Cabernet feels stewy and heavy, with questionable balance. Herbal flavors of stewed plum and tomato finish chunky and choppy.
From the winery's most pebbly five-acre section of vineyard atop Diamond Mountain, this is dark black-purple in color. The tannins are soft but powerful, eager to age through 2025–2027, while the fruit lies on the currant and plum side of things, with a bit of cedar lurking through.
All four of Dâo's indigenous red grapes—Touriga Nacional, Tinta Roriz, Jaen and Alfrocheiro—are in this blend. It is rich and fruity wine, showing a lightly perfumed character against ripe black fruit tones. Drink now.
A Cabernet-based blend, with Merlot, Malbec and Petit Verdot, this offers pleasing aromatic complexity, with notes of coffee, dark fruit and vanilla, accented by floral overtones. The palate is full bodied, with abundant coffee and cherry flavors backed by firm tannins. The fruit and oak seem to tussle a bit at present; try after 2017.
Rich and varietally expressive on the nose, this Cabernet Sauvignon is softened by the addition of 15% Merlot, the two combining in layers of ripe plum and tobacco. With mouthwatering acidity and firm tannins, it offers a complete package of enjoyable, approachable Cabernet.
An evenly dispersed nose of sage bark, cherry compote and lightly toasted cedar introduces this bottling by Fred Brander, a Santa Ynez Valley winemaking pioneer now actively trying to create a new Los Olivos District appellation. The flavors are balanced between cherry fruit and oak, with smooth tannins throughout.
With rich melon aromas, ripe apple flavors and a soothing, almost soft texture, this wants some rich, sophisticated cooking to go with it, like sautéed fish with a classic French sauce. Subtle acidity keeps the notes of almond and apple lingering on the finish.
From vines now a dozen years old, this unusual Walla Walla AVA Sauvignon Blanc is a brilliant straw color—aromatic with light scents of ripe grain and tangy fruits, and fills the mouth with delicious flavors of melon, white peach, lemon verbena and a dash of pepper. Complex and engaging, it finishes dry but leaves an impression of slight sweetness. Drink it slightly chilled.
Hugely ripe, this is a dense and potentially intense wine. Its high alcohol brings out a disturbing pepper character that spoils the purity of the rich fruits and mineral texture. It shows the heat of the volcanic soil of Ragen de Thann Grand Cru in its rich fruits and ripe structure. It does need aging, so drink from 2017.
This has a brighter yellow color than most of its peers, more body, riper fruit flavors and—unusual for this variety in America—probably some oak influence. Rather full bodied, but well-balanced and very smooth, it combines peach and pear flavors with a hefty mouthfeel.
This is ripe and smooth, with a generous creamy texture. Spice and apple combine to give a tangy edge that will soften and integrate as the wine ages. It's full of potential. Drink from 2017.
Crafted from Wente clone grapes from Charles Ranch, this label is the passion project of longtime wine industry player Tony Lombardi, who manages the much larger Kosta Browne brand. Barrel-fermented in neutral oak this wine offers heady Tahitian vanilla and lemon curd around green apple skin and lemon. The palate is both creamy and crisp, the finish reasonably powerful.
This is an impressive, big and broad wine. It's full of dusty tannins and ripe, rich black fruits. Solid with spice from the wood aging, it is concentrated and holds fine aging potential. The Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend gives the firm structure that will allow it to develop well. Drink from 2017.
Soft, subdued, savory and subtle, Old Kraft dates back originally to the 1860s, much of its plantings traceable to the 1890s. Zinfandel and Petite Sirah populate the gorgeous pocket of a site, a stone's throw from Spottswoode. Blackberries and raspberries figure prominently, alongside intrigues of cinnamon and clove, a forested note not far behind.
Grapefruit rind jumps out of the glass in this vivid, balanced and refreshing white that also carries a complex mix of lime, more grapefruit and the tiniest suggestion of fresh-cut grass. A creaminess to the texture rounds things out and soothes the edges.
Richness (of both flavor and texture) marks this deeply colored, full-bodied Syrah. Aromas of ripe blackberry and licorice coupled with flavors of clove and blackberry jam make it luscious yet not overly big. It has the firm tannins and good balance for aging through 2019.
This full-bodied wine offers classic Nebbiolo aromas of underbrush, black cherry, leather and a whiff of baking spices. It's still young, delivering raspberry, clove, cinnamon and grilled herb framed by tightly woven tannins. Give this time to unwind. Drink after 2019.
A Castillon ridge mix of 95% Merlot and 5% Cabernet Franc, this perfumed wine has new wood and mint flavors that balance with the black fruits and tannins. It's ripe, with fresh acidity as well as structure. There's just 8,500 bottles from 7.5 acres. This will age well, so drink from 2017. Owner Nicolas Thienpont purchased the vineyard in 2011.
Attractively perfumed, this Verdier family wine comes from Merlot/Cabernet Sauvignon vineyards in their first certified French organic vintage. The wine is a smooth and polished. New wood flavors show strongly, after 16 months in barrel, alongside the ripe tannins and black plum fruits. It has rich potential and a strong presence. Drink from 2017.
From 7.5 acres of Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a rich wine, very perfumed and with layers of ripe fruit. It is lightly structured, full of red berries with a firm tannic character in the background. Under winemaker Olivier Dauga, the wine needs to age but has all the fruit potential there. Drink from 2018.
This is fruity and juicy with good acidity and fresh berry fruits. The 90% Merlot and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon blend has the right amount of tannic character, showing structure that brings out ripe red fruits and indicates good potential. Drink from 2017.
The wine has serious tannins and firm fruit that give an austere character at this stage. But it will develop and round out into a rich wine with ripe black fruits, always with a solid tannic structure. Owner Juliette Bécot manages the technical side here with consultant Jean-Philippe Fort from the Michel Rolland lab, and manages marketing at classed-growth Château Beauséjour-Bécot in nearby Saint-Émilion.
Big and juicy, this is an attractive blend of 70% Merlot, 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Malbec with a promising future. It has ripe berry fruits, touches of spice and ginger. The tannins are firm, dusty and dry while allowing plenty of room for the fruit. It will develop well; drink from 2018.
A wine club selection, this pure Malbec is fragrant and streaked with well-defined layers of blackberry, dark chocolate and earth. There's a pleasing whiff of sandalwood and baking spice that carries through to the finish.
It's listed on the back label as off dry, and in fact has 11 g/L of residual sugar, but it boasts a certain roundness and fruit persistence. Though labeled Columbia Valley, in fact it's 100% estate (Red Mountain) fruit, and old vine—30+ years—to boot. It's well-crafted, with a mix of citrus—flesh and rind—plenty of backing acidity and a thoroughly refreshing finish.
A vibrantly aromatic, dazzling wine with abundant notes of lychee and rose petal. It's on the lighter side of medium bodied and drinks dry with a lot of hang time on the pronounced, floral finish.
Zesty in black pepper and luscious in blackberry, blueberry and raspberry, the grapes are from 90-plus-year-old hillside vines. Complex and structured, it offers a balanced point of view and plenty of intrigue, simultaneously fresh and brooding.
From 100% estate-grown Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot grown in the heart of the Stags Leap District, this earthy red offers black tea and coffee aromas and flavors, suggestions of wild sage and black pepper enveloping the nose. Medium to full-bodied, elegant and well-composed, the tannins are soft and structured, the wine able to age, drinking well now through 2020.
A blend of 60% Syrah, 27% Merlot and a handful of other varieties added to the mix, this aromatically pops, with complex notes of plum, blueberry, smoke, chocolate and floral accents. It's silky smooth in feel, with abundant chocolaty flavors that help it go down far too easy.
This is a rich and ripe wine, densely textured with firm tannins that provide a solid structure. Made from selected fruit grown in the north of the Tejo region, the blend of 60% Aragonez, 25% Syrah, 15% Merlot is a textured wood-aged wine that has red and black berry fruits followed by balanced acidity. It is ready to drink, but will improve after 2015.
Herbal and earthy up front, this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Carmenère and Malbec brings notes of green tobacco and black olive to the front along with toasty oak. The palate is tight and crisp, with choppy tannins. Flavors of toasty oak and berry fruit compote finish resiny, with juicy, zesty acidity. Drink through 2021.
The inaugural vintage of this wine offers notes of caramel, herbs and raspberry. The flavors are full, chocolaty and sweet, backed by dry tannins.
Lightly aromatic, this suggests potpourri and raspberries. It's elegant, clean and fresh in feel, with tart acidity and a pleasing sense of purity to the apple and raspberry flavors.
Briny aromas suggest pickled white fruits and even some sauerkraut. In the mouth, this is tight for a fairly sizable wine. Dry peach and bitter melon flavors settle on citrus pith, while the finish is long and leesy.
Leesy on the nose like the name implies, this Godello smells creamy, with notes of apple and melon. The palate shows moderate citric acidity but nothing scouring, while flavors of ripe apple, orange and powdered sugar finish leesy and peachy.
Lemony-vanilla crème brûlée rises to the fore in this medium-bodied Chardonnay. Medium to high in acidity, it retains a crisp freshness throughout its layers of fruit, finishing clean.
Hot, stalky aromas of red chili flake and weedy raspberry lead to a lean, tomatoey palate with flavors of tomato, dried berry, vanilla and especially dill weed. A saucy, woody finish confirms that this is now mostly oak and acid; drink through 2020.
Pinched, rubbery and earthy-smelling, but with ample berry, plum and char aromas, this young, oak-aged RDD is full and well balanced. Blackberry, cassis and oak flavors dance well together, while the finish introduces hickory and herbal notes.
Exuberant, ripe fruit flavor energizes this medium-bodied yet smooth and fresh-textured wine. Shadings of spicy oak add complexity.  The freshness and fruit will make a great pairing with spiced meats.
Raspberry and plum aromas are woody and narrow in scope. This Cabernet is medium in body but also a bit sticky and resiny. Candied blackberry and black cherry flavors are slightly medicinal, while the finish is oaky, with a lactic flavor and a touch of heat.
This brightly aromatic wine suggests lime leaf, clover, wet stone and orange blossom. It drinks off dry (24 g/L residual sugar) with a broad feel and a narrowing finish.
Cardamom and vanilla lend warmth and spice to fresh black cherry and blueberry flavors in this sprightly wine. It's rich and ripe in fruit concentration, but delicately textured with a brisk, spry finish.
Aromatically distinctive, this suggests dry chocolate, orange peel and tart cherries. Flavors are on the lighter side of medium bodied, soft in feel with abundant umami flavors and tart acids.
Herbal and foresty up front, this Bordeaux blend smells of fig, caramel and berry fruits. Big, tannic and chunky on the palate, this has toasty, chocolaty, burnt flavors and a blackened finish. This offers a lot of power and fruit but it's brusk.
Blended from several stellar vineyard sites, including La Cruz and Devoto, this wine presents a brightness of acidity and crisp, red fruit. These are offset by a heartier uptake of oak and tannin that feels out of place compared to many of the producer's single-vineyard offerings. On the finish, expect tart cranberry and pomegranate to peak.
Equal parts Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot finished off with 5% Cabernet Franc, this cool-vintage wine is light in color. Notes of plum and cranberries come with herb and floral accents. It's light and lively with elegant, pretty fruit flavors backed by mouthwatering acidity with a lingering finish.
A very subtle aroma leads to a rich feel on the palate, where ripe plum and soft berry flavors emerge. This wine is totally smooth, warm and plush, full bodied but with soft tannins that make it easy to sip.
Scents of lemon-cake icing meet the pretty yet not treacly tropical aromatics of white flowers on this barely off-dry wine. The sweetness is noticeable on the palate but far from overdone, with clean flavors of lemon custard, tangerine juice and a Key-lime finish.
This smells oaky and tastes ripe and pure, like crushed blackberries and raspberries. It feels plush and smooth in the mouth, finishing on the soft side. While medium bodied, it has just a touch of tannin to balance the ripeness and make it appetizing to drink.
Damp earth and forest floor mark this wine, a blend of various clones, the majority of which are Pommard. Red raspberry and cherry compete for attention aromatically and in taste, followed by a spiciness of Christmas clove.
This tastes honest, clean and direct, with a nice mixture of fruity, woody and savory herbal aromas and flavors. It's medium in body and offers just a touch of tannin to add a little grip to the texture. A tasty raspberry note gives it even more personality.
This warm-climate wine is fulsome and hearty in baked Asian pear and candied ginger. A dried-fruit quality stands out on the buxom palate, a buttery taste of dried apricot drizzled in honey and brioche.
This aromatic wine offers notes of jasmine, quinine, flowers and peach. It drinks medium sweet with lightly spritzy stone-fruit flavors.
One of the many chateaus with vines on the wide valley floor of the Dordogne, this estate has made a lightly extracted wine that has chocolate as well as blackberry stalkiness. There's freshness as well, with fruit acidity that cuts through the mineral texture. Drink from 2018.
Fruity, soft and ripe, this is almost ready to drink. Attractive berry fruits are touched by a smoky character from the wood aging. Balancing Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot equally, the wine has ripe tannins and a gentle, juicy aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
This smoky wine has firm tannins and a tough core. The juicy fruit is taking its time to develop, although it will give the wine density and ripe berries in time. The vineyard, created in the early 1980s is now at peak maturity. Drink from 2017.
This wine is smooth and ripe, with soft tannins that are already so well integrated. The texture is dense, full of blackberry fruits, full in the mouth and with a velvet final texture. Drink from 2017.
Fifty-year-old vines are the backbone to this firm wine. Mint and smoky wood-aging flavors give a dry, dense character. Underneath the Cabernet tannins and black currant fruit are developing well. This is a wine for the medium-term, drink from 2017.
Coming from the warm 2013 vintage, this easy-drinking wine offers notes of sweet corn, pear and peach with light barrel accents. The fruit flavors are elegant with a lightly creamy feel.
Chocolate, coconut, plum and coffee aromas lead the nose on this densely concentrated wine. The monolithic palate offers black cherry, chocolate-covered coconut and oak alongside astringent tannins that dry out the mouth.
Milk chocolate and pomegranate curiously mix in this mid-weight, lowly oaked nonvintage Cabernet, blended with 18% Merlot and 2% Petite Sirah. New American oak aged most of it, with a bit of French, too, only 25% of the whole new.
This is the first release from a new, two-acre vineyard devoted to this old-school clone. It's what might be called sculpted, with excellent definition among all the components. Pomegranate and raspberry fruit carry a hint of pine needle, and the finish carries  through with good focus and medium length.
Ripe, heady tropical fruit and citrus aromas extend onto the palate of this dry, yet deeply fruity, concentrated Riesling. It's unabashedly juicy, but textured and mineral on the palate, finishing long and with a streak of high-toned acidity.
Crisp in green apple and lemon, this light Chardonnay, only 12.4% in alcohol, will sweep you off your feet with Thai food, seafood or as a before-dinner quaff. From an un-grafted, old Wente clone vineyard found abandoned (thus the name), it has a trace of salinity throughout and a lurking layer of Asian spice.
Intense aromas include crushed tomato vine, elderflowers, hay and tropical fruit. The vibrant palate offers yellow peach, kiwi, honeydew melon and a hint of lemon pastry alongside crisp acidity.
This savory wine opens with a heady fragrance of rose and lychee. The linear, steely palate offers rich tropical fruit and a saline note brightened by energizing mineral sensations. It has nice length and finishes dry. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
Aromas of exotic fruit, green melon and crushed tomato vine carry over to the palate along with a mineral note. The vibrant acidity gives a linear character and a clean, focused finish. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
Some ageable Cabs are lovely to drink on release. Not this one. It's tough in tannins, with a gum-stinging astringency. Below all that are ripe, concentrated blackberry jam and cassis flavors. Blended with Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, it's already throwing some sediment, a good sign, which means you won't have to wait 20 years for it to come around. Pop that cork after 2018.
This structured Pinot Grigio boasts aromas of yellow spring flowers, exotic fruit, citrus and a hint of Alpine herbs. The juicy, vibrant palate delivers green apple, pear, white peach and citrus allied with fresh acidity.
This Merlot is dry, full-bodied and delicious in fruit and oak. Black cherries, currants, mocha, plums, vanilla and fragrant sandalwood all come together to provide a complex drink that's firm in tannins and fancy in the finish. Drink now.
There's something old-fashioned about this blend of all five classic Bordeaux varieties. Partly it's the tannins, which are brusque, and partly it's the alcohol, which is low. On the other hand, the fruit is ripe in the modern style, brimming with raspberries and cherries, and there's plenty of fancy new French oak. It's a pretty wine to drink now through 2020.
Hints of menthol and bramble meld with rich black-plum and cherry notes in this composed Pinot Noir. It's juicy and concentrated in black fruit flavors, but graced with a spray of delicate floral notes and brisk, revitalizing acidity. Soft, fine tannins square off the finish.
Musky floral, spice and cherry-blossom notes meld in the exuberant bouquet of this aromatic auslese. It's blossomy on the palate as well, and luscious, with sweet peach and yellow cherry flavors. It's unabashedly lavish, but balanced by a streak of citrus acidity and a long, lingering finish.
Ebullient on the nose, with scents of mango, lemongrass and yellow flowers, this off-dry Riesling is intensely tropical in style, but elegant as well, with searing lime acidity that cuts through layers of juicy, ripe fruit and finishes remarkably dry.
This wine shows ripeness, depth and purity. In the mouth, it is saturated and thick. Flavors of saffron, tomato paste, oregano and stewed berry fruits are pure Kankana. A different breed of Syrah, it reflects San Pedro's pioneering efforts in the Elqui Valley.
Whiffs of freshly pressed apples are accented by pretty peach and honeysuckle notes on this dry, refreshing Riesling. The palate is lean in style, with subtle stone-fruit flavors that feel brisk and vivacious against a backdrop of pineapple acidity.
There's a savory vein of herbs and smoke that persists from start to finish on this deeply fruity auslese, adding a shade of dimension and complexity. It's zippy in lemony acidity, but silky and sweet, with luscious flavors of preserved peach and tangerine.
This powerful Pinot, from one of the three distinct blocks within Black Kite's estate vineyard, offers earthy plum compote and blueberry with a lingering background note of vanilla. Bright, grippy and layered, the finish offers toasty oak.
Structured and elegant, it delivers aromas of white flowers, stone fruit and almonds. The juicy fruit palate recalls yellow peach, apricot and pineapple while aromatic herbs and white almond add depth.
A rich, perfumed and juicy wine, it is full of fruit and also solidly structured. Coming into balance, it still needs some more time. Give this full-bodied, dense wine until 2017.
A dark and brooding wine, it's very much a Malbec that needs to age. Solid tannins, berry fruits and concentrated structure all promise a serious wine that needs time to mature. Drink from 2017.
This impressive wood-aged wine has weight, rich black and red berry flavors and a smooth, unctuous texture. With its concentration, ripeness, acidity and tannins, it could age through 2016.
Given the difficulties of the 2010 vintage, this wine is a success. The tannins are young, thick and astringent, and then the acids kick in. After that initial assault, the palate begins to get more interesting complexities of black currants, blueberries, minerals and oak. The suggestion is ageability, but only limited. Give it until 2016–2017 years and drink with hearty fare.
Dense and structured, this is a firm wine from the Santar estate. It is powered by its tannins and partnered with ripe black plum fruits. There is a feeling of tough rocks, a dry core that need some time. Drink from 2015.
This complex, ripe wine reflects the steely character of Dão whites along with perfumed acidity and rich white fruit flavors. Lime, apples and pears are smoothed by wood aging and given a final burst of freshness. It's ready to drink.
Gritty aromas of berry fruits, wild herbs and leather are hardly shy. This has a lot of energy and acidity across the palate, while flavors of blackberry, plum and coffee finish ripe, baked and rich, with a slight raisiny note. Enjoy with grilled beef or lamb.
Here's a Pinot Grigio for grownups. It opens with aromas of white flowers, Granny Smith apple and a hint of flint. The palate delivers creamy peach, apple and melon alongside a touch of vanilla. It conveys wonderful depth and freshness.
A small planting of an unusual “Upright” clone yields this fragrant, smoky, lightly earthy Pinot Noir. Chock full of briary red fruits, it's a tart, lip-smacking wine, drinking well in its youth, but also positioned (via bracing acidity) for further years of bottle age. The young fruit gives a pretty, cherry candy note to the finish.
This is a tannic, acidic, hard-to-appreciate wine due to the cold conditions of the 2011 vintage. But the wine, which is 100% Cabernet and was aged in 50% new French oak, still is a great success, testimony to skillful viticultural and winemaking practices. With a solid core of black currants, it wants until 2020 in the cellar.
Full bodied, this opens with aromas of vanilla, butterscotch, citrus and oak. The palate offers ripe golden apple, pear and lemon pastry, all layered with well-integrated oak. The rich flavors are balanced by fresh acidity.
Despite showing raspy rawness on the nose, this Cab Franc is also aromatic with earth, spice, leather and leafy black fruits. The palate is tannic and slightly reduced, while flavors of baked berry, licorice, hard spices and chocolate finish herbal, peppery and gritty in feel due to residual tannic grab. Drink through 2017.
Dusty aromas of yellow apple and cream soda are creamier than the palate, which is tangy, lemony and green. This tastes of briny citrus and green apple, while tangerine, lime and green-herb flavors define the finish.
Plum and berry aromas are lively and come with a mild scent of animal fur. This blend of four grapes, led by Tempranillo, feels blocky and loosely defined, while flavors of plum, raspberry and a touch of herbal green finish spicy and woody. Will function best as an everyday wine.
Cidery aromas vie with bready notes to give the bouquet complexity. This feels zesty, juicy and citric, with a lean, racy body. Apple cider, green herb, lime and scallion flavors finish with a lasting taste of lime.
Aromas of blue flowers, forest floor and red berry lead the nose on this straightforward red. A blend of 80% Sangiovese, with 20% Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, the smooth, accessible palate offers red cherries, strawberries and anise alongside bright acidity.
This unoaked, Dijon-clone wine is lively and lush, with tongue-coating fruit. Melon, banana and papaya flavors steer it in a tropical direction, with a lick of mineral and phenolic bite giving further support.
Stripped-back cherry and raspberry flavors take on a jammy character with airing. This is tight, bright and mildly acidic on the palate, with raspberry, red plum and brown sugar flavors. Toast and a molasses-like sweetness carry an otherwise juicy finish.
Soft and earthy, this wine's herbal, funky nature suggests Carneros as much as Sonoma Coast, with black tea and crunchy dried cranberry lurking on the back of the palate. Medium in weight, it eases into a mellow finish.
Here is a well-focused wine with appealing toastiness as soon as it's opened. Fruit flavors are still tight, but unfold into tangy raspberry. It spent 18 months in half new French oak, to good effect.
Blackberry, cherry and earthy aromas are backed by a secondary wave of oaky char. This is 80% Garnacha and 20% Carignan with raw clamp to the palate created by grabby tannins and tomatoey acidity. Briny raspberry and plum flavors finish with rubbery tannins and related grab. This is a tough wine but one with lots of life and power. Drink through 2019.
Closed on the nose at first, this wine reventualy reveals black currant and cassis around wrapped tobacco leaf, the midpalate somewhat dry and puckering in tannin. Concentrated and dense, it finishes in dusty mocha.
This is a bold, ripe wine that is full of black fruits and generous tannins. It has a rich, warm character that is tempered by acidity and a crisp black currant aftertaste. Drink now.
This wine starts off a bit tarry or rubbery, but with airing that dissipates to reveal a dry, savory, complex rosé. It's a blend of Syrah, Grenache and Mourvèdre that builds in layers of texture from chalky to silky on the finish.
Chunky and fleshy, this is loaded with spicy pear and lighter melon and tangerine fruits. Full, forward and fresh, it's delicious and ready to go.
This is a satisfying, ripe and rich wine. It has big layers of red fruits, attractive spice from partial wood aging and fresh acidity. Still young, it will be even better from early 2016.
Made from a majority of Cabernet Franc, complemented with a small handful of Merlot, the wine is aged in new French oak half barrels. Tannic and savory in cassis and cranberry, the wine also shows a trace of black tea and tomato leaf. The wine's oak remains extremely pronounced, which suggests some time in cellar, through 2020.
Pure Négrette produces a smooth, black cherry and red berry-flavored wine. Light hints of wood from aging in big barrels have helped to give the wine a rich and spicy character. This is further enhanced by black-fruit acidity that adds a fresh streak to this warm, ripe wine. Drink now.
Apple, peach and melon aromas are fresh and easy to like. This has a pure palate, with citric and malic acidity offset by pulpy weight. Peach and apricot flavors finish long, and overall this should maintain its good shape over the next year.
Rubbery, somewhat funky aromas shift toward iodine and stewed blackberry. A dense palate houses rubbery tannins that are short on structure. Baked blackberry, plum and cassis flavors finish toasty, herbal, leathery and salty.
A hearty blend of Merlot and Cabernet, this opens with aromas of cedar, vanilla, underbrush and black currant. The warm, one-dimensional palate delivers dried black cherries, raisins, tobacco and anisette alongside velvety tannins. You'll also get the heat of alcohol that dominates the finish.
Made entirely from Tempranillo—a rarity in Italy—this opens with aromas of blue flowers, plum and a whiff of leather. The smooth palate delivers dried cherry and prune, accented by ground pepper and oak-driven spices. Bracing but fine-grained tannins and fresh acidity provide support. Drink through 2018.
Green bell pepper and cedar aromas lead the nose of this easy-drinking blend of Syrah, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon. The aromas carry over to the fresh palate, along with black currants and black cherries. Supple tannins support the juicy flavors.
This ripe, tannic wine has a good sense of balance between the firm structure and the potential of the rich, full-blown fruit. Blackberry fruit shows strongly, giving a dense wine that will still develop quickly. Drink from 2016.
Mocha toffee and raspberry liqueur provide an alluring entry into this wine, before it evolves into soft layers of blackberry and black currant. Medium to full-bodied, this has thick, dry tannins that stay prominent through the finish.
Made from the native grape Pugnitello, this hearty red opens with aromas of dried Mediterranean herbs, scorched earth, allspice and overripe black fruit. The warm, forward palate doles out baked plum, ripe blackberries, blue flowers, clove and the heat of evident alcohol. Velvety tannins wrap around the palate, but the dominant alcohol throws it off balance and gives it a monolithic character.
Showing a slightly coppery blush hue, this softly aromatic wine has a pleasing muskiness. It's high acid, slightly spritzy, clean and fresh. Though perfectly quaffable, it's not a typical Oregon Pinot Gris.
Fruity and forward, with a spritzy mouthfeel, this is like a bowl of cherries, with a cherry candy finish. Highlights of orange and grapefruit come through also. Drink now through 2016.
The vineyard was planted in the early 1970s, and this wine shows some old-vine complexity. It's an elegant drink, with a nicely finessed fruit and acid balance. Light and clean flavors suggest watermelon and raspberry with a hint of cherry.
This is not as light on the palate as the low alcohol reading might suggest. The raspberry and strawberry fruit carries aromas and flavors of composted earth. It's an interesting wine, and offers good value in a Willamette Valley Pinot.
Scheurebe, a Riesling hybrid common in Germany and Austria, is a rare find stateside, particularly in dry styles. Zesty lime pith and pineapple flavors are brisk and revitalizing in this light-bodied sip. A touch of fresh herbs and white-tea astringency lend nuance to the crisp finish.
With vines in the northeast of the Gers region, this winery produces impressively ripe red wines. This wood-aged and spicy wine is still young and needs time to integrate the wood with the red berry fruits. It does have weight and potential richness, so give it until 2016.
Earthy aromas of dried herbs, forest floor and freshly felled fennel shrubs emerge form this blend from the now William Foley-owned Firestone brand. Warm cherries and tart acidity make for a nice blend of fruit and complexity on the palate.
A soft and rounded wine, it's ripe, full in the mouth and warm in character. A steely edge merges with the ripe apple and pear flavors to give a wine that's rich and ready to drink.
Very dry, with a firm mineral content, this rosé really needs food. Fresh red currant and raspberry fruitiness are surrounded by tannins and tight acidity. Drink by 2015.
Ripe and smooth, this is a rich, rounded wine that has a warm character, tasting of sunshine. With soft tannins, a touch of caramel from the wood aging and layers of black fruits, it's an attractive wine to drink now, or age until 2017.
Jammy cassis, blackberry and foxy aromas define the nose on this lush, almost ponderous blend of Malbec, Bonarda and Petit Verdot. There's flatness to the palate along with flavors of blackbery, plum and dark, minty oak. A heavy, grabby finish is bold and voluminous.
This is rather subdued but after ample time in the glass it reveals aromas of oak, toast, espresso and chocolate that continue on to the palate along with vanilla notes. It lacks the vintage's hallmark intensity. Drying tannins give an astringent finish.
Pretty aromas include violet, crushed berries and a balsamic note. But the palate isn't very expressive, offering up raw Morello cherry and espresso notes alongside racy acidity and astringent tannins. Drink after 2020.
Old Wente clones drive the richness of this wine, a mix of lemon, oak and fennel, with a touch of spice on the finish. A waft of buttered popcorn invites intrigue aromatically, developing into creaminess on the body. Bacigalupi has a history of famous Chardonnay, having provided grapes for Chateau Montelena's winning Chardonnay in the 1976 Paris Tasting.
There's a mix of herbal aromas and raisin on this blend of Malbec, Merlot, Cab Sauvignon and Syrah. In the mouth, it's edgy and rubbery, with rock-hard tannins. Flavors of baked black fruits, tobacco and citrus peel finish raw and rubbery. This will need a lot of air and also hearty  food to show its better side.
A penetrating whiff of wintergreen is the first impression of this aromatic young wine. The tightly-wound fruit brings cranberry and tart plum flavors into focus, followed by a lick of dark chocolate running through stiff tannins.
This is a firmly wood-aged wine, full of spice and burnt toast flavors. They leave little room for the berry fruits at the moment. It is structured, a statement wine with its heavy bottle, and needing time to round out. Drink from 2016.
This is a rich, broad-shouldered Pinot Noir, woodsy and oaky with a firm and fierce grip on the palate. It leans more toward earth and smoke than exuberant fruit. Textured in soft undertones of silk, it also offers plenty of fresh herb, a component to take advantage of in pairing.
A delicate, almost fragile wine, this opens with tart fruit flavors of strawberry and red plum. There's more than enough acidity, smooth tannins, and a graceful flow to the wine, ending with a light dusting of cocoa.
This is a rich and jammy wine, packed with black fruits as well as dark tannins. Dark chocolate flavors come from the wood aging which also leaves a burnt taste. These both suggest this potentially fine wine needs to age. Drink from 2016.
Even with some hours of breathing time, this remains tight and tannic, with compact flavors of black cherry hard candy. A streak of cola is highlighted with brown spices. The wine loses momentum in the finish, which thins out and quickly fades.
Loaded with scents and flavors of chocolate, mocha and buttered toast, this forward and very pretty wine surrounds a light core of strawberry and cherry fruit. It's polished—even silky—and very tasty, though without the depth and complexity for long-term aging.
Aromas of stone fruits and citrus are dusty and nice; so is the mouthfeel, which is fresh but shows texture and body. Watermelon, nectarine and citrus flavors finish slightly bitter but within reason.
Despite being nine years old, this comes across young and jammy, with foxy aromas of wild berries and animal fur. The palate is blocky, heavily extracted and fully ripe in feel. Flavors of prune and blackberry finish with hard tannins. Drink or hold.
This Barolo has a somewhat raw quality, delivering sensations of tart red cherry, black pepper, sage, coffee bean and bitter chocolate. The bracing tannins are astringent and overpowering at this stage. Try it after 2020.
Stewed tomato, graphite and mushrooms in a brown sauce lead the aromas on this single-vineyard offering from downtown Santa Barbara-based winemaker Ryan Carr. The tomatoes continue on the palate, alongside cran-raisin juice.
This wine has an unusual combination of sweet and sour sensations that include ripe plum, sour cherry, vanilla, dark chocolate, hay, dill, sage and leather. It's still very young with nervous acidity and aggressive tannins that need time to tame.
This rich wine has both open, ripe black fruits and the freshness of the vintage. On top, there is an extra layer of color and exuberance. It includes some Petit Verdot, rare in Saint-Émilion.
This wine is already soft, warm and attractive. With blackberry fruit, ripe tannins and a crisp acidity at the end, it shows a generous nature. Drink from 2015.
Firm and dry, it's packed with as much tannin as fruit. It has a dark, structured character that's shot through with mint and black currant flavors. The aftertaste is dense and solid. Drink from 2017.
This super-rich wine is dominated by ripe Merlot that is given structure by leaner Cabernet Sauvignon. The wine is ripe, full of black plum flavors and dark tannins. Touches of licorice and wood aging flavors give a bitter edge to this powerful wine. Drink from 2015.
Fruity and attractive now, it features touches of lime, spicy underlay and tight crispness. It's ready to drink, very fresh and fragrant.
High-toned aromatics precede a light, lean palate, with a jolt of tingling acidity polished around a medium-weight body. There's  a hint of wet stone and spice to the finish.
Minerally, warm aromas are rustic and savory, with berry power lurking in the backdrop. A full, grabby, tannic palate is meaty in feel, while flavors of blackberry, dark spices, cocoa and herbal notes finish flush and tannic, with ample ripeness.
The nose on this estate bottling is sparse at first, with pencil shavings and a speck of boysenberry fruit. It opens more once sipped, delivering a pleasant tartness powered by sour cherry flavors and a tiny bit of clove.
This is steely, crisp and mineral. It is brightly lit by acidity and juicy green fruits, plums and limes. Over all the fruitiness, a tight structure gives a cool aftertaste.
The softest hint of apricot can be discerned on the nose. The palate reinforces this flavor with more soft stone fruit and just a touch of off-dry sweetness. The result is a very expressive, gently but deeply fruited, slender palate that will sing with spicy Asian dishes or soft cheeses. It offers wonderfully lasting flavor.
Delicate yet well-integrated, this emphasizes flavors high in tongue-tickling acidity. Lemon, lime and orange fruit, along with a touch of leather, runs into a finish hinting at wild cherry, cola and molasses. It's subtle, but convincing.
Very pure notes of cherry and strawberry pervade this wine. They are perfumed with a slight conifer scent that spells freshness and lifted ease. The palate has an unforced, elegant concentration. This is charming and fresh, with convincing depth, purity and a lasting, fresh finish.
Aromas of raw oak, cinnamon, bacon and clove outmuscle fruit on this rough, tannic, scraping 2013. Flavors of toast, chocolate and baking spices push blackberry and black-plum fruit towards an oaky, abrasive finish with rocky tannins and accents of chocolate and cinnamon. Holding this for another couple of years may or may not soften this fierce but tasty RDD.
This is an amazingly tasty and focused wine that has the most distinctive black pepper character. It's medium-bodied, dark and smoky looking and quite flavorful, backing up the pepper with lively raspberry notes and staying lively from the first sip to the last.
This blend of 44% Cabernet Sauvignon, 34% Malbec and 22% Petit Verdot is rich and layered on the nose with black-cherry, blueberry, dark-chocolate and roasted-beef aromas. The palate kicks off with a touch of mint, then offers thick blueberry, coffee syrup and soy flavors. The structure is still quite sticky, and will open with time.
White blossoms and summer peaches persist from nose to finish here. The palate is lusciously sweet, dripping with ripe, rich apricot and tangerine flavors, but a backdrop of lime acidity makes it refreshing too. Drink now through 2021.
Leather, cedar and tobacco figure most prominently here with an additional 12% Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend helping matters. The juicy core of blackberry and currant brushes against a rustic, burliness of tannin that finds balance and restraint on the finish.
This wine combines 60% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Zinfandel and 3% Petit Verdot from the producer's Three Palms Vineyard. Smooth and toasty, it's also structured and vibrantly fruity in black cherry, with delightful hints of clove and black pepper.
A seductive oak aroma and richly layered fruit flavors make this wine a bit of a show stopper. The fine-grained tannins add a velvety mouthfeel, while the full body adds extra viscosity to extend the aftertaste.
Stridently purple in hue, this bold, richly berried wine deftly blends the spice and smoke of Lemberger with the plush black fruit and bramble of Merlot and Dornfelder. Hints of granite and herb lend elegance but its faint tannins and sunny acidity make it enjoyable now through 2021.
Guava and caramelized honey scent this lusciously fruity yet dry Riesling. It's ripe and silken on the palate, but vibrantly structured, finishing on a mouthwatering crush of tangerine flavor. Drink now through 2020.
This is one of the most inky, concentrated, fiercely tannic vintages of Alion to date. Aromas of granite, boysenberry and grilled meat feed into a biting, full-bodied palate that can only benefit from more time. Blackberry, vanilla and chocolate flavors finish with mocha notes and stocky, rugged tannins. This is fierce and unrefined now; drink from 2018 through 2027.
Smoky, earthy, black pepper aromas make this wine catchy at the first sniff, and then the flavors fill the mouth with similarly spicy, earthy suggestions. It is full-bodied, firm-textured and quite concentrated. Pour this with venison or smoked duck or another game dish if possible.
This is a beautiful, fresh, relatively light and nicely balanced wine with a gorgeous array of vibrant fruit in both the aromas and the flavors. It pours on red and black cherry and raspberry while backing them up with good, taut acidity and light tannins.
This medium-bodied Shiraz is refreshingly medium-bodied and drinkable, with softly dusty tannins on the finish that don't get in the way of present enjoyment. The aromas are a bit floral, hinting at stone fruit and anise, while the flavors are raspberry and red plum. Drink now–2020.
Intriguing aromas of wilting rose petals, turned earth, wild mint and a lamb-like gamey character entertain the nose on this very special bottling. The palate is quite tart with cranberries, pomegranates and strawberries, with the fruits' bright acidity carrying deep into the finish.
Schloss Vollrad's standard-label Kabinett has a distinctly sheer, almost ephemeral lightness. Juicy white peach and grapefruit flavors shine brightly on the palate, but are edged by angularities of acidity and crushed stone. It finishes long with a lingering kiss of sweetness.
From vines that were 79 years old when the fruit was harvested, this is made in a deliberately lean style to encourage cellaring. Notes of lemon, crushed stone and apple skin are taut and dry, with a dusty, tactile sensation on the finish. Drink now, or hold through at least 2020 to allow for more development.
Apple, yellow flower and sea breeze aromas lead the way. The bright, elegant palate displays lemon, lime and walnut alongside vibrant acidity. A mineral vein underscores the savory flavors. Drink now or hold another two or three years for more complexity.
This wine is well poised between structure and fresh red fruits. A dark side of firm tannins gives a dry core to the wine, while the bright red-berry fruit is perfumed and fresh. The two elements are integrating well. Drink from 2019.
A perfumed village wine, this is made from four different parcels. The wine offers an attractive touch of tannin and spice to go with the forward red fruits. It should develop relatively quickly, and will be ready to drink from 2018.
The nose has the rich fruity tones of apple and plum peel. The palate is wonderfully clean and fresh, with a slight phenolic frame which lends both structure and texture. There is slight pepper spice, too, and a whole host of red, ripe apples.
Emblematic of the emerging trend of pushing finished alcohol levels down and aromatics up, this puts the flavor emphasis on subtle complexity. It offers a full range of tart red fruits, along with seams of dried leaf and milk chocolate. It was entirely whole-cluster fermented, and aged 16 months in 15% new oak.
Aromas of toasted oak, nut, acacia flower and orchard fruit come together in the glass. The firm palate offers mature yellow apple, candied nectarine zest, toasted hazelnut and flinty mineral. Bright acidity provides balance.
Alluring scents of fragrant spring flower, citrus and ripe orchard fruit set the tone. The lively, refined palate doles out lemon zest, Mediterranean herb, juicy nectarine and apple alongside bright acidity. A saline note closes the succulent finish.
Alluring scents of Spanish broom, iris, berry and a hint of dried herb come together on this. The bright palate offers candied cherry, nectarine zest, white pepper and a hint of fennel while a mineral note signals the finish.
Bright and savory, this opens with enticing aromas of wild berry, fragrant blue flower, rose and a whiff of exotic spice. The silky, easy-drinking palate offers succulent Marasca cherry, black raspberry, white pepper and a hint of clove alongside lithe tannins and fresh acidity.
Subtle aromas of red berry, brimstone and a floral note lead the way. The palate offers juicy red cherry black raspberry, cinnamon and clove while a mineral note signals the close. It's still young but balanced, with fresh acidity and firm, refined tannins. Drink 2018 through 2026.
Pressed wild flower, hay, fennel and ripe berry scents mingle together in the glass. The refreshing palate combines crushed strawberry, juicy red cherry, saline and a hint of baking spice alongside bright acidity.
This wine required considerable aeration before it began opening up. Once there, the airy pretty fruit flavors emerged, a mix of Bing cherries and a dusting of malt powder. It's got a buoyant midpalate and a pleasing streak of orange Creamsicle.
Stunningly good for an entry-level Pinot Noir, this new Tavola gets the sort of care generally reserved for reserves. Native yeast fermentation and almost a year in 20% new French oak is where it starts; then a barrel selection is made and it's bottled unfined and unfiltered. Deep flavors emphasize black fruits, with a dash of pepper highlighting the finish.
From a small parcel of 19th-century vines planted on the hill of Saint-Mont, this is a finely structured rich wine. It has dark tannins and dense black fruits that are balanced by acidity. Rich, spicy and full, it still has tannins that will begin to soften shortly. Drink from 2018 until 2024.
Rich and developed dried pear and apricot notes stream from the nose of this wine, signifying its evolution. The palate is dry but rich with fruit and an emollient sense of vanilla spice. This is structured and bold, holding ample power within its broad shoulders and plenty of length on the finish. Pair with an equally potent dish or cellar and drink through 2020.
Winemaker Bill Brosseau tapped into his family's vineyard to produce this light and delicate wine. Its aromas suggest white flowers, key lime and chalk, while its flavors are high-toned and tight, recalling chilled pear, lime and pomelo pith. A graphite-like minerality adds complexity.
Blue fruit, raspberry, violet, dark chocolate, green olive and spice aromas lead to ripe fruit and herb flavors that mix in plenty of smoked-meat notes, heightened a dazzling feel. A lengthy finish caps it off. It's an intriguing wine that keeps you coming back for more.
Delicious blueberry, plum and cinnamon notes are still shy on the nose. The palate also holds them tight with pervading, lively freshness and a very slight spritz. White pepper spice colors the edges, making for an exciting, concentrated but light-footed wine that has rusticity and elegance in equal measure. Lovely now but sure to develop. Drink now–2025.
Produced only in top years, this rich wine is impressive. It has great fruit, ripe strawberries and red currants bringing juicy fruitiness. There is also a more serious mineral texture that comes with tangy acidity. Age this wine for a few more months and drink from the end of 2017.
This blend of Grenache and Cinsault comes from the small cru area of La Londe. Produced from organic grapes, it is pale in color, although rich in texture and with touches of white peach and strawberry. With its pepper and tangy texture it is a style of rosé that could well age. Drink from 2018.
Ripe plum, forest floor, truffle and dark spice aromas lead the nose. The delicious, enveloping palate doles out fleshy blackberry, juicy black cherry, cinnamon and licorice flavors while an earthy hint of game lends character. Firm, velvety tannins provide polished support. Drink 2018–2023.
This dazzling, dry and restrained wine was matured in new French oak but with such a light touch that it feels more lean than fat in texture. It has enough fruitiness—crisp apple and lemon flavors—and spice to make it tempting now, though it will improve with age. Best after 2020.
Exotic and complex, this medium-bodied, structured wine is awash with aromas, from charcuterie and mixed nut to cedar and pencil. Anchoring it is a dusty tannic profile and a punch of oak.
The estate blend is a terrific value in this vintage, coming close to equaling the quality of the single-vineyard wines. Grilled pineapple and melon notes feature a strong acid line that drives through into a long finish.
This is a single-parcel wine from old vines (which date back to the 1970s). Aged in wood, this very fine wine shows sophisticated tannins, complex spice, black-plum fruits and a judicious shot of acidity. It is a fine wine, still young and showing a good potential for aging. Drink from 2019.
This is tight, toasty and focused upon opening, with highlights of green olive and a core of mixed tree fruits. Excellent concentration, vivid acidity and a suggestion of wet rock contribute to a well-balanced wine with structure and length. The framing here is just right, with 30% new oak adding subtle threads of light wood flavors. Decant or cellar till 2020 before drinking.
Pale in color, this ripe wine is beautifully balanced. It does have rich fruit, raspberries and wild strawberries. It also has a fine texture with plenty of acidity as well as a touch of pepper. The wine could age a further few months, so drink at the end of 2017.
Plush and elegant dried purple flower, baked black fruit, graphite and char aromas show on the nose of this bottling. The palate is full of flavors that range from rich black currant to lively anise and cedar. Quite tasty and complex all around.
Fragrant hints of bergamot and Seville orange play enticingly on the nose of this beguiling wine. The palate amplifies those juicy, tart and lively flavors, sending them dancing into the finish. It's fresh, fruit-driven, dry and utterly moreish.
The aromas draw you into the glass, with complex notes of smoked meat, plum, herb, flowers, orange peel and cinnamon. The mouthfeel is swoon-worthy, showing a compelling sense of intensity and balance. The sense of purity is knee buckling.
This dark and meaty blend of 58% Syrah and 42% Grenache shows black currant, charred game and black licorice touches. The palate combines pepper-crusted beef flavors with pretty violet and lilac accents, framed by a tannic structure that's robust but not obstructive.
Deep but elegant lilac and rose petal aromas meet loamy soil, river stone and tangy cranberry on the nose of this bottling from this historic vineyard. There is great depth to its flavors—a layering of dark raspberry thyme, anise and dill—while showing plenty of turned earth notes throughout.
This almost white rosé is produced from selected parcels of the estate. Citrus and pepper dominate, supported by ripe red fruits and delicate acidity. It is a beautiful wine, elegant and with a fine balance between the fruit and the crisp texture. Drink now.
The blend of old-vine Cinsault with Mourvèdre has produced a dense wonderfully perfumed wine. Rich in tannins, it also shows great black fruits and equally great concentration. This is a powerful wine that will be ready from 2018.
Blended from eight separate vineyards, this appellation wine doesn't hold back on quality. It offers a seamless, integrated foundation of juicy cherry, cranberry and orange flavors, dusted with cardamom spice.
A light rendition of the variety given time in bottle to mellow, this is a stand-out wine redolent of black olive, fig and gamy, sanguine meat. Delicately peppered, it slowly unravels its layers of blueberry and cherry fruit, complementing its savory register of flavor.
A blend of 44% Syrah, 31% Grenache and 25 Mourvèdre, this wine is aromatically very pure, with plenty of red and blue fruit, speckled with bay leaf, herb and black-pepper accents. It possesses a thrilling plush mouthfeel, with olive and black-fruit flavors, showing a fine sense of purity.
Slight pepper spice mingles with subdued, tart berry fruit on the nose of this wine. The palate adds supple vanilla and strawberry notes, with fine, smooth tannins and pervasive freshness. For now, the vanilla still dominates, but a little bottle age will help. Drink 2018–2022.
This is a new wine designed to be a “grown-up rosé” from the Cronk family who moved from London to Provence in 2009. It is a ripe fruity and rich blend of Grenache and Syrah. Weight as well as contrasting acidity give a structured character that balances well with the intense fruitiness. Drink the wine from late 2017.
The star of the winery's lineup, this subtle svelte wine offers the classic velvet-glove mouthfeel. It's silky and yet rich, with strawberry and cherry-pastry-filling goodness. Textural and lingering, it's a fine testament to the potential of Pinot Noir in this cool climate AVA.
The high alcohol may be a stumbling block for some palates, but this wine is nonetheless absolutely delicious. Sourced from a vineyard planted in 1972, it was aged in 50% new French oak. It's intense and detailed, with hints of wintergreen, a broad streak of cherry cola, and finishing licks of molasses, brown sugar and coffee.
Classic lychee and rose petal aromas perfume this ripe yet elegantly composed Gewürztraminer. Juicy and forward yet balanced and spry, it calibrates zesty tangerine acidity against a crystalline glaze of honey that lingers on the finish.
Dark strawberry fruit meets with rustic earthy aromas and light allspice notes on the nose of this wine from the late actor's family-owned winery. The palate shows boisterous and tart cranberry and black raspberry fruit, with pencil lead minerality and great energy, if not a ton of complexity.
Slightly shy aromas of blackberry, black plum and turned black soil are simple and straightforward on this wine. The palate combines pencil lead with anise, thyme, marjoram and black pepper, framed by tart cranberry, beet juice and sour-cherry fruit. A sip enlivens the mouth and wipes clean on the finish.
A relic of times gone by in the Napa Valley, this 100% varietal Charbono is dark purple in color and compelling in its aromas of leather saddle and baked bread. Crisp acidity underlies ripe blueberry and plum flavors that never go over the top, complementing a velvety texture.
Aromas of pineapple, guava, citrus blossom and mango lead the way to flavors of lemon peel, lemon curd, toasted bitter almond and green apple. It's bright on entry with a strong backbone of minerality.
Deep ruby to the eye, this wine has an intriguing nose of cherry, rose and fennel bulb. It is soft in the mouth yet it fills the entire palate with flavors of cherry, pomegranate, fennel bulb and white chocolate. Light yet ever-present tannins continue into the soft finish.
Forest floor, truffle, baked plum, eucalyptus and baking spice unfold on this structured red. The linear, elegant palate offers dried black cherry, clove, ground pepper and tobacco framed in polished, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
Black plum, dark kitchen spice, leather and pressed violet aromas lead the nose on this round, savory wine. On the velvety palate, firm, polished tannins frame mature black cherry, licorice and a hint of chewing tobacco. Drink through 2018.
There's no denying that this is a heavily oaked Rioja with toast, resin, vanilla and cheesy aromas alongside fully ripe blackberry and prune notes. There's energy to the palate, while previously mentioned heavy oak spawns flavors of vanilla and spice to go with berry fruit. A mouth-coating, woody finish stands out on this compartmentalized Tempranillo-led blend. Drink through 2023.
Aromas of ripe berry, forest floor, leather and menthol lead the way. The firm, savory palate doles out juicy black cherry, licorice, grilled porcini and well-integrated oak framed in fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2022.
Pine resin and a light, oily brine character define the nose on this lithe, fresh fino. Crisp acidity and healthy weight mesh into balance on an easy-to-navigate palate. Flavors of almond, sea brine and toffee finish crisp.
Rich and warm, this is a big, ripe wine. Toasted marshmallow notes frame honeyed pineapple, while hints of singed fruit and mocha linger on the finish. Drink now.
This is an attractively herbal rendering of Côtes du Rhône Villages, offering hints of flowering thyme, sage and rosemary that are rounded out by flavors of just-ripe cherries. It's a medium-bodied wine, with a long on the finish.
Aromas of freshly baked bread, toast and melon are soft and welcoming. This Pinot Noir-led Cava feels plump, with moderate acidity. Flavors of melon, quince and pear finish mild, with only a bit of kick.
This doesn't boast the most expressive nose but aromas of baked black plum, espresso and scorched earth slowly unfold. The warm, concentrated palate reflects the heat of the vintage, revealing blackberry jam, licorice and a hint of chewing tobacco alongside fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
This Cabernet Franc from Hungary has aromas of tart cherry, black plum and purple flowers. It is a medium- to full-bodied wine with flavors of tart cherry, pomegranate and cranberry juice. The tannins are soft and the finish is persistent.
Lively aromas, an appetizing balance and just-rich-enough fruit flavors make a good combo in this medium- to full-bodied wine. It has subtle herb and kiwi aromas, crisp apple flavors, and a texture poised between supple and tangy.
This Slovenian Sauvignon Blanc has aromas of lemon grass and freshly mowed lawn. It is sharp on entry with flavors of lime juice, orange zest and grapefruit before the bright acidic finish.
Named after the road on which the winery sits, this wine is a blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah. Coffee, herb and cherry aromas are followed by black olive and cherry flavors with the Syrah expressing itself prominently.
Mature dark-skinned berry, forest floor, truffle and chopped herb aromas unfold in the glass. The chewy palate doles out juicy black cherry, blackberry, licorice and an earthy hint of game alongside firm tannins.
Heavily fragrant purple fruit, from baked blueberry to fresh boysenberry jam, meets with melted dark chocolate, black rocks and mint leaf-topped cola on the nose of this Tannat, Cab Franc and Petit Verdot blend. Blackberry juice, caramel cream and coffee flavors show on the palate that is laced with soft tannins and a ton of acidity.
Dark coffee, dried herb and whole green-pepper aromas mix with notes of cherry, black plum and vanilla. The black-fruit flavors are rich but still show a sense of elegance.
Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot make up the majority of this blend. High-toned aromas of dried herbs, tobacco, bell pepper, dark fruit and spice lead to pleasingly plump, well-balanced fruit flavors. It leans a touch into the green but still delivers a lot of enjoyment.
Equal parts Syrah and Merlot (40%), this wine is finished off with Pinot Noir. Vanilla, baking spice, licorice, woodspice and cherry aromas lead to plump, tart cranberry flavors that linger. The wood is heavy at times, which is a shame as the balance of the fruit is spot on.
With grapes from 40-year-old vines, this is a dense and concentrated wine. Yellow fruit as well as crisper citrus flavors give a balance between richness and freshness. It has high alcohol that shows in the light pepper edge although this doesn't detract from the fruitiness of the aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
A whiff of bergamot lends musky floral intensity to this peachy featherweight wine. It's perfumed but not at all cloying, etched finely with a lingering lace of crystalline sugar. Drink now through 2017.
This blend of 40% Furmint, 40% Pinot Gris and 20% Riesling has aromas of pineapple, lychee fruit and fresh herbs. It's thin and racy in the mouth with flavors of mango, apple and guava.
This round, structured Syrah opens with aromas of ripe black fruit, tilled soil and ground black pepper. The palate shows mature blackberry and raspberry together with notes of spice and clove. Velvety tannins provide the framework.
Aromas of baked plum, vanilla, menthol and star anise lead the nose. The ripe, robust palate offers fig, raisin, licorice, dried mint and tobacco alongside solid tannins. Give the tannins a few more years to soften up then drink to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Sesame oil, cracked peppercorns, pencil lead and charred oak serve as the savory side to aromatic elements of dried strawberries and olallieberries on the nose of this bottling. Upright but not chunky tannins frame the palate, where dried blueberry, beef char and rosemary converge for a complex and very dry flavor profile.
This dense and dark wine offers spice and toast flavors. It has a big, generous feel, leaving room both for the dry, still-young tannins and for aromatic blackberry fruits. It does need to age, so drink from 2017.
Winemaker Nick Goldschmidt does wonders with this consistent vineyard source, coaxing out mocha-chocolate, black cherry and blackberry, never overpowering an earthy back note of tobacco. Medium-bodied and soft, it finishes in a swirl of smoke and is juicy and enjoyable now.
The 91-acre Grézels vineyard surrounds a 12th-century castle. This revived historic vineyard has produced a well-structured wine that is rich, despite its modest alcohol. It is dense with tannins and black fruits that are developing into a smoother texture. The wine needs to age further, so drink from 2017.
This is a beautifully balanced, medium-bodied wine that's not too deep in color. It smells like ripe blackberries and has a whiff of wood smoke in the bright berry flavors. In the blend, Zinfandel is supplemented with Syrah, Petite Sirah and Carignane.
Cabernet Sauvignon is blessed with 9% Merlot, coming together in a seamlessly rich wine intense in dark chocolate, coconut and vanilla. Soft, the tannins are integrated and the juiciness of the fruit concentrated, finishing with more of that rich taste of chocolate.
Black as night in the glass, this wine shows black cherries, lava rocks and espresso beans on the dense nose. It's thick and chewy once sipped, with zesty acidity that sizzles across the palate, showing blackberry and coffee flavors. It's all power, with very little finesse. Sales of the wine benefit multiple sclerosis research.
Made in a relatively restrained style, this is a dark, juicy and smoky wine from Dry Creek and Alexander Valley area vineyard sites. Lengthy and smooth, it takes a decidedly medium-bodied route, with traces of leather pouch on the nose and a soft layering of milk chocolate on the finish.
This wine offers aromas of raspberry and toffee. There is a nice interplay of fruit, floral, and minty flavors, notably raspberry, cherry, toffee, rose petal and eucalyptus. Mildly gripping tannins make themselves evident, and fruit flavors remain prominent through the smooth finish.
Bramble and dried herbs, pressed apple and peach notes blend elements of savory and sweet in this complex Spätlese. Shimmering lemon-lime acidity refreshes the midpalate, leaving lingering tones of finely crushed mineral.
While racy and spry, this delicately framed wine packs a punch of honeyed peach and nectarine flavors. It's effusively fresh, floral and fruity, yet accentuated by a crystalline sheen of minerality. Drink now.
A hint of bramble wafts amidst crisp Asian pear and green apple notes on this invigorating spry Spätlese. Searing lemon-lime acidity is softened by a plump kiss of honeyed apricot on the midpalate. It's elegant, yet accessible, and drinks well now.
While dry in style and crisply balanced, plump white peaches and apricots shine brightly in this silky Pinot Blanc. It's rich and round with a slightly clingy mouthfeel but not at all cloying or dense. Enjoy now through 2020.
A bit tight and dainty on the nose, with reserved apple custard and white-flower aromas, this top-level bottling shows lots of nerve and verve once sipped. It offers salt, lime juice and honeysuckle on the palate, with lots of tension that lasts long after the bottle has been opened. It's a well-structured white.
The natural richness of a Pouilly-Fumé is revealed well here. Plenty of mineral, herbaceous flavors contrast with the ripe yellow and pear fruit flavors. It is generous and full in the mouth, still young and needing to age. Drink from 2017.
This bottling offers plum and plump blackberry on the nose along with milk chocolate, leather and cedar. It's quite tight and tannic on the palate at first, but all the expected and delicious components are in place: tart blueberry, tobacco, coffee and hints of licorice and chocolate that will emerge emerge more with time.
This is a wine that reveals the younger side of Moscatel in Setúbal. It shows honey, spice and perfumed fruitiness that contrast with the richness of the texture and its fresh peach and apricot flavors. Drink now for immediate enjoyment.
This opens with aromas of mature dark fruit, toast and a slight whiff of cellar floor. The palate is still tight and rather closed, but offers fleshy black cherry, toasted oak, clove and mocha alongside polished tannins. It's fast approaching its ideal drinking window so enjoy sooner rather than later.
This offers aromas of violet, rose, Marasca cherry and a whiff of cake spice that carry over to the warm palate along with a whiff of toast. Tightly packed tannins give it a firm finish.
Engaging aromas of fresh rose, iris, perfumed berry and hint of menthol meld together in the glass. On the taut palate, notes of white pepper, clove and anise add some depth to the sour cherry core. Assertive tannins and nervous acidity offer focused support while a hint of juicy raspberry backs up the finish. Drink 2018–2026.
While honey and white peach flavors ring pure and sweet, there's a slatey, mineral tone that penetrates deeply in this off-dry Kabinett. It's nervy and brisk, finishing long with zesty lime pith bitterness.
Full in the mouth, this rich wine is dominated by yellow fruits and ripe apricots lifted by a touch of toast. Great acidity conveys a fresh and tangy character. The wine is still developing as the full fruitiness comes forward. Drink from 2017.
The nose is initially rather closed but eventually reveals baked earth, leather, game and ripe black fruit. The taut, tense palate offers dried black cherry, toasted oak, mocha and vanilla alongside grainy tannins.
Fragrant and bright, this offers aromas of rose, iris, perfumed berry and a balsamic note. The palate is still rather closed, offering raw red cherry, star anise and chopped sage alongside tightly knit tannins and brisk acidity. It still needs time to come together. Drink 2018–2024.
From vines planted in 1958 in an appellation that straddles both Sonoma and Mendocino counties, this is an intriguing, interesting wine, mostly varietal, with 8% each of Mourvèdre and Syrah. Floral, it veers into leather and game, with a juicy backbone of red cherry and berry and earthy, textured tannins.
A velvety, sinewy blend of 40% Syrah, 40% Grenache and 20% Mourvèdre from estate-grown and nearby vineyards, this wine offers a lot to like, from textured tannins to succulent blueberry and plum. Intense and floral, it finishes with an explosion of white pepper.
Rose, red berry, mint and anise aromas unfold in the glass. The firm palate offers wild cherry, crushed raspberry, clove, anisette and a mocha note framed in bracing tannins and fresh acidity. Drink 2020–2031.
Brioche and vanilla-cherry are the stars in this full-bodied yet savory, herbal wine sourced mostly from the Oak Knoll District. Complex in flavor, it spikes in clove and cinnamon, finishing with a taste of gunpowder and tobacco.
This offers aromas of toast, espresso, scorched earth, red berry, clove and a whiff of leather. The lean, tense palate offers dried cherry, grilled herb, anise, coffee and tobacco but not much fruit richness. Tightly wound, bracing tannins and nervous acidity provide the framework.
From a fourth-generation farming family, this wine is sourced from the Niebaum-Tonella and Morisoli-Borges vineyards along the Rutherford Bench. It opens with a bouquet of sweetly ripened mango, peach and pear, which continue on the palate. Fierce acidity and a drop of anise form the backdrop of the wine, which finishes somewhat tropical.
Wild berries, from elderberry to salmonberry to mountain strawberries, are in play in this wine. The underpinning scents suggest earth and wet cement, while in the finish a strong flavor of breakfast tea lingers. This is an interesting addition to the Sineann lineup.
Light plum and raspberry aromas include notes of animal and latex. This lightweight Garnacha has a monotone mouthfeel, while hollow simple berry flavors finish with acidic tang.
The bell pepper, cedar and green bean notes in this wine come across as astringent and thin.
This is a rustic, barnyard-scented wine, with tannins and acidity but lacking fruit. Think of it as one to quaff without too much thought.
This is a lightly aromatic wine, with faint aromas of melon, lemon-lime and yellow flowers. The palate is soft and thin, with similarly delicate flavors as the nose. Drink now.
Herbal tomato and red-berry aromas are jumbled and fail to state much of a case for this multigrape blend. Herbal spicy tea and raspberry flavors finish jagged, with mild heat.
Unconvincing aromas are hard to describe. This Malbec sparkler is coarse and foamy on the palate, with burnt peppery slightly bitter flavors of orange and grapefruit.
There is a lightly yeasty character to this wine that gives it a bitter edge, hindering its fruitiness and crisp apple acidity.
This blend is so oaky and sticky on the nose that it smells like a Hershey's Kiss. The palate is out of balance, with chunky weight and unintegrated acidity. Like the nose, this tastes like a drugstore chocolate bar, while the finish is hot.
Reduced jammy black-fruit aromas announce a scratchy palate with spritz. This multigrape blend tastes saucy and stewed, while hard tannins and a note of burnt coffee control the finish.
This wine is sour, flat and past its prime, showing an abundance of tar and oak qualities.
Sharp red-fruit aromas include notes of vinegar and asphalt. Angular and bumpy on the palate, this is tart and foxy tasting, with a sour, herbal finish.
The aromas come off as quite volatile, making it difficult to get at the tart cherry aromas and flavors.
This gold-colored stale-smelling Torrontés smells like old apple juice. A chunky flat palate offers bland oxidized bitter flavors. Remnants of apple barely help a bitter finish.
This blend smells outright herbaceous and weedy. An astringent volatile palate is grating, while this tastes much like it smells: weedy and green.
Clove and beef jerky aromas are odd and forceful. A globular palate lacks form and balance, while this tastes oddly and singularly of clove.
Full of ripe fruit, opulent and concentrated, this is a fabulous and impressive wine. It has a beautiful line of acidity balanced with ripe fruits. The wood aging is subtle, just a hint of smokiness and toast. This is one of those wines, from a great white wine vintage, that will age many years. Drink from 2024.
Perfumed berry, rose, new leather and dark spice are some of the enticing scents you'll find in this vibrant wine. It's still tightly wound but already dazzles with juicy wild cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon, nutmeg and pipe tobacco flavors. Youthfully austere but noble tannins and bright acidity provide balance and serious aging potential. Don't be tempted to open it soon—the best is yet to come. Drink 2022–2042.
Immensely inviting, this opens with fragrant pipe tobacco, crushed berry, new leather and pressed violet aromas. On the palate, firm, refined tannins underpin juicy black cherry, raspberry and cinnamon flavors, while orange zest accents and an energizing mineral note lift the finish. It's beautifully balanced with bright acidity and will reward a bit of cellaring. Drink 2020–2032.
Full-bodied and plush yet vibrant and imbued with fresh fruit, this is simply superb. The oak is present but never dominant, adding brown sugar and cinnamon elements to blueberry, roasted meat, espresso and black olive notes. A hint of peppery spice also creeps into this impossibly complex wine. The finish combines power, length, freshness and dusty tannins, suggesting that while impressive now, it should age well. Drink now–2030.
Pretty as all get-out, this wine is a floral masterpiece—a study in coastal rose and forest scents with a counterpunch of white pepper that leaves one wanting more. Juicy raspberry, strawberry and tangerine flavors are seasoned in allspice and tobacco, the palate so beautifully delicate yet fully realized in savory complexity and length.
Balancing power and grace, this wine delivers alluring aromas and flavors of ripe black cherry, raspberry compote, grilled herb, licorice and tar. Vibrant acidity and firm, velvety tannins provide freshness and structure, while a hint of pipe tobacco closes the lingering finish. Drink 2020–2032.
This is a rich, finely structured wine. It is highly perfumed, packed with black fruits and a dark, firm texture. At the same time, the acidity is intense and the structure tight, suggesting a wine to age. Beautifully endowed with great fruit, it will take time to develop. Drink from 2026.
This is a great wine. It has all the elements in place to produce a wine that will last for years: powerful fruit, rich tannins and a structure that is built to last. This is elegant, impressive and concentrated. Almost entirely Cabernet Sauvignon, the grape gives the wine its fruit and its tannins. Drink from 2028.
It's easy to call this a beautiful wine—it's dense and lush, with great layers of black fruit and acidity. The first fully biodynamic vintage from this estate has certainly yielded impressive ripe fruit, with structured tannins and dark berry flavors that linger long. It has enormous potential, certainly not be ready to drink before 2027.
This is a structured wine with its tight acidity and concentrated white and citrus fruits. Produced from a small parcel on the Chevalier estate, it is complex with its mineral texture, its touch of pepper and its fine herbal acidity. It is a wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2023.
There is a sense of pure juicy black-currant fruit that shoots through this great wine. With tannins that are firm while not a jot too much, the wine is crisp, packed with fruit and set for many years of aging. It is beautiful, fruity and intensely structured. Drink from 2027.
This is a very fine wine showing a new level of quality at Montrose. With its almost velvet tannins inside the intense black fruits, the wine is rich, smooth and generous. Blackberry and black-plum fruits are to the fore along with the fine acidity and great structure. A wine to age for decades, it will be ready to drink from 2027.
Dense and beautifully ripe, this is a rounded rich wine. It focuses on the tropical yellow-fruit spectrum. That gives a full wine with wood-spice hints and just the right amount of citrus acidity to give it a lift. Drink this finely structured wine from 2023.
This grand wine is stylish and elegant. It is also powerful and dense with dark tannins and great concentration. It is a very fine wine, packed with black plum and berry fruits and balanced richness. Don't let the great fruit deceive: this is a wine for the serious long term. Drink from 2028.
With seriously dense tannins, this shows great structure. Rich and full of ripe fruit, it also has a fresh streak that gives it a lift. The structure will allow the wine to age over many years while the fruit and acidity will give it crispness. Drink this impressive wine from 2027.
Chocolate, coconut, plum and coffee aromas lead the nose on this densely concentrated wine. The monolithic palate offers black cherry, chocolate-covered coconut and oak alongside astringent tannins that dry out the mouth.
Milk chocolate and pomegranate curiously mix in this mid-weight, lowly oaked nonvintage Cabernet, blended with 18% Merlot and 2% Petite Sirah. New American oak aged most of it, with a bit of French, too, only 25% of the whole new.
Ripe, rich cassis and blackberry flavors are shaded with savory touches of soy sauce and clay in this bold, lushly textured wine. Soft acidity makes this wine plush and plump on the palate, but its fruity exuberance is quite pleasant.
This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot shows an uneasy mix of green coffee bean, cherry, char and meaty notes. The cherry flavors are medium bodied backed by a wall of firm, dry tannins.
This is a deep-colored, ripe wine, with touches of wood well embedded in the spicy, rich blackberry fruits. The wine is juicy, with dry, dusty tannins promising some aging. Drink from 2016.
A very subtle aroma leads to a rich feel on the palate, where ripe plum and soft berry flavors emerge. This wine is totally smooth, warm and plush, full bodied but with soft tannins that make it easy to sip.
Equal parts Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot finished off with 5% Cabernet Franc, this cool-vintage wine is light in color. Notes of plum and cranberries come with herb and floral accents. It's light and lively with elegant, pretty fruit flavors backed by mouthwatering acidity with a lingering finish.
Scents of lemon-cake icing meet the pretty yet not treacly tropical aromatics of white flowers on this barely off-dry wine. The sweetness is noticeable on the palate but far from overdone, with clean flavors of lemon custard, tangerine juice and a Key-lime finish.
This smells oaky and tastes ripe and pure, like crushed blackberries and raspberries. It feels plush and smooth in the mouth, finishing on the soft side. While medium bodied, it has just a touch of tannin to balance the ripeness and make it appetizing to drink.
Damp earth and forest floor mark this wine, a blend of various clones, the majority of which are Pommard. Red raspberry and cherry compete for attention aromatically and in taste, followed by a spiciness of Christmas clove.
This tastes honest, clean and direct, with a nice mixture of fruity, woody and savory herbal aromas and flavors. It's medium in body and offers just a touch of tannin to add a little grip to the texture. A tasty raspberry note gives it even more personality.
This warm-climate wine is fulsome and hearty in baked Asian pear and candied ginger. A dried-fruit quality stands out on the buxom palate, a buttery taste of dried apricot drizzled in honey and brioche.
This aromatic wine offers notes of jasmine, quinine, flowers and peach. It drinks medium sweet with lightly spritzy stone-fruit flavors.
There's a slightly sour, forest-floor funkiness to the nose of this wine from an historic appellation near Hollister. Not boasting much ripe fruit on the palate, the flavors lean toward leather and earth, with fine tannins, nice acidity and hints of licorice.
There's a lightness to this 90% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Petit Verdot that surprises, making for a friendly, approachable entry. Cassis, raspberry and cedar mix around rounded tannins and a medium-length finish.
The nose is broad and welcoming, with apple and pear flesh aromas touched with vanilla and struck match. The palate shows good tension between lemon pith and roasted apple, proving quite focused and grippy with tannins, although a tad hot.
Moderately aromatic, this suggests melon, grapefruit and pear. It drinks off dry (8g/L residual sugar) with pink-grapefruit flavors and good balance. It keeps you coming back for more.
Ripe red cherry and plum flavors are plump and plush in this rich, full-bodied wine. Soft acidity adds to its easy feel, but grippy, fine-grained tannins help to rein in the finish.
This wine shows a mixture of fruit and barrel notes, with vanilla, coffee bean and milk chocolate playing off plum and cherry. It's soft and plush in feel, trailing toward the finish.
Waxy white florals and lifted apple aromas add freshness to slightly cider-like flavors of pressed apple and mulling spice in this dry Riesling. Delicately light bodied it has a brisk, refreshing finish.
Blended from several stellar vineyard sites, including La Cruz and Devoto, this wine presents a brightness of acidity and crisp, red fruit. These are offset by a heartier uptake of oak and tannin that feels out of place compared to many of the producer's single-vineyard offerings. On the finish, expect tart cranberry and pomegranate to peak.
Aromas of spiced strawberry pie and wet slate emerge on this wine from a brand that seeks to offer quality at affordable prices. The palate shows medium-intense cranberry fruit, with a hint of anise spice. It's fairly straightforward and ideal for nightly sipping.
Stalky, grassy, briny aromas of red-berry fruits run low on ripeness. This is tangy and tomatoey in feel, with tart plum and tomato flavors. A snappy, zesty, crisp finish is raw and cutting. Drink this wine now.
Jammy, candied aromas suggest cherry Kool-Aid. This Carignan-Grenache-Syrah blend is narrow and juicy in feel, with raw red-fruit flavors that are also candied and suggestive of animal. This is decent but raw on the finish and overall does not deliver much pleasure.
Earthy, spicy aromas of juniper, bell pepper and oak cover up slightly underripe berry scents. This has an acceptable level of tannic scratch and peppery, herbal berry fruit flavors. Like the rest of this Cab, the finish is lightly herbal, green-leaning and hard.
The aromas seem quite muddled with coffee, cranberry and currant fighting to get through. It's lighter in style with the variety seeming to get lost.
Aromas recall coffee, toast and weedy underbrush. The lean palate offers licorice, espresso, black pepper and dried fruit flavors alongside clenched, aggressive tannins. While the tannins need to unwind, it lacks the fruit richness for lengthy aging. You'll also notice the heat of alcohol on the close.
Berry, dried sage, licorice and menthol aromas lead the nose. The warm, one-dimensional palate offers toasted oak, coconut, spirit-soaked prune and vanilla alongside sharp, astringent tannins.
Aromas of oak, toast and coconut carry through to the palate along with spirit-soaked plum, fig and anisette. It doesn't have enough fruit richness to support the extremely astringent wood tannins.
Black currant fruits dust the aromas of this wine. The palate shows a stalky character, with dusty tannins and a dry core. It's old school Bordeaux, tough when young and needing time. Drink from 2017.
This unoaked, Dijon-clone wine is lively and lush, with tongue-coating fruit. Melon, banana and papaya flavors steer it in a tropical direction, with a lick of mineral and phenolic bite giving further support.
Spanish broom, jasmine, peach and apple aromas lead the nose of this charming white that hails from an estate located just outside of Rome. The juicy palate delivers Golden Delicious apple, tropical fruit and a hint of mineral. It finishes on an apple note.
Soft and earthy, this wine's herbal, funky nature suggests Carneros as much as Sonoma Coast, with black tea and crunchy dried cranberry lurking on the back of the palate. Medium in weight, it eases into a mellow finish.
Here is a well-focused wine with appealing toastiness as soon as it's opened. Fruit flavors are still tight, but unfold into tangy raspberry. It spent 18 months in half new French oak, to good effect.
Stripped-back cherry and raspberry flavors take on a jammy character with airing. This is tight, bright and mildly acidic on the palate, with raspberry, red plum and brown sugar flavors. Toast and a molasses-like sweetness carry an otherwise juicy finish.
Tempting buttery flavors and a lively texture combine well in this medium-bodied wine. It smells a bit like butterscotch, and this note continues in the flavors, where fresh lemon and Bosc pear notes also emerge. It's complex for an unoaked style.
Profoundly floral, this aromatic white balances ebullient violet and lavender perfume against crisp grapefruit and gooseberry flavors. Made from the Rivaner grape (also known as Müller-Thurgau), it's an exotic, yet dry, refreshing wine. Drink now.
This rich, almost sweet wine owes a lot of its exuberance to the flavors that oak barrels impart—toasted, smoky, seemingly sweet but not sugary notes like maple syrup. Ripe black cherry and boysenberry flavors blend in too. The mouthfeel is dense but not harsh, as the layers of fine-textured tannins add shape without a lot of weight.
This four-variety blend shows that crisp, refreshing white wines can emerge from the Southern Rhône. Hints of pineapple, pear and mandarin orange mark this medium-bodied white. Drink now–2016.
Mild aromas of cherry and nectarine come across simple and sweet. Following the nose's lead, this is mellow on the palate, with raspberry and cherry flavors that are, once again, a bit sweet in character. A controlled, candied finish is consistent with what came before it.
Ripe melon and grapefruit flavors are plush and pristine in this forward off-dry Riesling. Zesty tangerine acidity brightens the midpalate and leads a moderately long, sugar-cookie finish. It's a refreshing, fruity quaffer intended for youthful consumption.
This is attractive in a bright, fruit-driven style. Bright berry fruit is tinged with apricot and cocoa on the midpalate, then finishes firm and dusty.
A light but flavorful and dry bubbly, this has a pale pink color and frothy effervescence. Aromas like red cherries and peaches lead to tasty, lively fruit flavors. It has a refreshing, tart texture that's not too severe, and a soft finish.
Full, intense blackberry aromas skirt complexity but score points via power and grit. Rubbery tannins and plenty of oak give this weight and strength, while flavors of blackberry, black currant and chocolate are ripe and good. A toasty, oaky finish reveals enough blackberry flavor to make this right.
This medium-bodied blend of Grenache (70%), Syrah (25%) and Mourvèdre (5%) is aged in large oak vats. Leather and spice notes accent modest cherry fruit, then fold in touches of black olive and mocha on the slightly dusty finish. Drink now–2017.
Although it's young, this wine has seen some time in oak, which has given it a ripe fruity character balanced by toast. It's rich and full with balancing acidity and a spicy aftertaste. It needs to age a few months, so drink from 2016.
This Syrah opens with aromas of ripe dark-skinned fruit, ground black pepper and a whiff of cedar that all carry over to the dense, one-dimensional palate, along with a licorice note. It's balanced by firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2017.
Light pops of cherry and raspberry aromas emerge from a low-volume, feminine bouquet. This Trepat is typically fresh, with a lean body and citric acidity. Peppery red-fruit flavors include modestly applied oak, while the finish is long, and lightly spiced, with unspecific red-berry flavors.
With a vivid golden color, bold and buttery aromas, and rich, almost nutty flavors, this is a full-bore rendering. It is full bodied and brings out the most flavorful aspects of the grape. The texture is rich and almost thick, and the buttery nuances linger on the finish.
A fruity, forward nose of melon, citrus and guava aromas comes with a hint of match stick. Vivacious and lively on the tongue, this delivers a bolt of grapefruit flavor leading to pithy green notes of bell pepper and scallion through the finish.
Aromas of dark berry, violet, vanilla and a whiff of toast lead the nose on this bright, sleek red. Made from 70% Sangiovese and 30% Merlot, the firm but accessible palate delivers sour cherries, black raspberries, cocoa and dried aromatic herbs alongside zesty acidity and fine-grained tannins. Enjoy through 2017.
Aromatic and drinking at its peak, this remains fresh, tart and tangy, with palate-penetrating boysenberry and blueberry fruit. Think Lemberger meets Pinot Noir and you have a sense of it, albeit with a slightly rustic edge.
Aromas of mocha, espresso, coconut, ripe black-skinned fruit and new wood lead the nose on this hearty blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Cabernet Franc, 25% Merlot and 5% Petit Verdot. The thickly concentrated palate offers up dried black cherry, roasted coffee beans, toasted oak and vanilla alongside astringent tannins.
A new venture to the Douro by Tejo-based Lagoalva, this is juicy, fruity and soft. While it misses the minerality of many Douro wines, it does have ripe plum fruit flavors, and an open, generous texture. This is a warm full-bodied wine that's ready to drink.
Delicate and dry, this offers lightly spicy strawberry fruit and supporting acids. It's pretty and pale, light but not dilute, and would be an ideal match to a pork dish with a fruit sauce.
Fruity and easygoing, this blend of 60% Sangiovese and 40% Syrah doles out crushed black cherry, blackberry, spiced blueberry, white pepper and clove. Supple tannins support the juicy flavors and give it a smooth texture. Drink now.
Made entirely with Sangiovese, this offers scents of blue flowers, ripe berry and mocha. The simple, forward palate delivers fleshy black cherry, vanilla, chocolate, oak and a confectionary note alongside velvety tannins and the warmth of alcohol. Drink now.
Young vine flavors of bright raspberry fruit shine through, backed with juicy, tongue-tickling acids. This is not a complex wine, but fresh, persistent and lightly spicy. Drink it while it retains its vibrancy, now through 2017.
Soft and forward, this has a plush mouthfeel, a mix of banana marshmallows and lemon meringue pie. It's quite tasty and easy-drinking, so give it a light chill and drink up while it remains young and fresh.
Sangiovese gets a spicy lift from 5% Alicante on this bright, easy drinking wine. It offers scents of blue flowers, plum, blackberry and baking spice while the smooth, savory palate delivers crushed black cherry, white pepper and aniseed. Bright acidity and refined tannins lend it balance.
This 100% Zin comes from one of Paso Robles' most famous vineyards. The briary blackberry and mulberry flavors are very ripe, veering into chocolate-covered raisins. Although the alcohol is high, the wine pulls it all off, never losing its balance. Above all, it's a delight to drink now. Barbecue and short ribs come to mind as great partners.
The top wine from Tendil & Lombardi, it's warm, ripe, richly textured and fruity. It has a soft character, creamy and full in the mouth. Delicate apple acidity cuts through the ripe peach fruits to give a wine that shows both charm and serious structure.
From old Lodi vines, V. Sattui's annual heartland Zin is minty and herbal, high-toned and tannic, able to find a nice equilibrium between opposing personalities. Leathery and akin to pipe tobacco, it offers a more savory side of Zin, and is worthy of cellaring until 2019 or so.
A full-bodied, ripe and juicy wine that is developing well. It has weight, soft and warm tannins and already delicious fruit. Blackberries dominate, supported by acidity and a solid core of drier structure. Drink from 2015.
Elegantly structured, it starts with aromas of cut grass, stone fruit and pineapple alongside whiffs of mineral and Alpine herbs. The smooth, linear palate delivers white peach, apple, lime, exotic fruit and flinty minerality plus crisp acidity.
Dry, bold and intensely mineral, this powerful Riesling is lifted by whiffs of lemongrass and mint, along with a shining streak of lemon acidity. It finishes with a bristle of lime zest astringency and a hint of white flower.
The 2012 has more stuffing than the previous vintage, offering round, pretty fruit flavors of hard cherry candy. There's a streak of red licorice also, balanced acids and tannins, and the length and depth to reward further aging.
Fields Family aims for balance from 60-year-old vines, aiming to produce refined Zins with subtle power. They've achieved that here, offering velvety texture and a taste of raspberry liqueur and nuanced vanilla amid an elegant core of chocolate-laced tannin.
Grande in all senses, this wine comes in a powerfully heavy bottle. The wine itself is very structured with ripe and dense tannins and concentrated black, juicy fruits. It comes from selected parcels in Rocim, and is only made in top years. Age this powerful wine and drink from 2017.
The aromas hint at the wood aging of this rich wine, while the palate also brings out the rich and structured fruits. Dense and with great red berry fruitiness, it has a fine sense of smokiness, acidity and tannins that act as a solid support. It is still developing, so don't drink before 2017.
Pushes all the right Chardonnay buttons, with creamy tropical mango, papaya, pineapple and lime flavors. It also folds in buttered toast, vanilla and honey notes from oak.
The Attaché brings appealing and lively cherry fruit, framed with citrusy acidity. The power in this wine is all forward and fruit-driven. It's quite good, but more for immediate drinking than cellaring.
Classic Santa Lucia Pinot Noir, big, bold and delicious. What it lacks in delicacy it more than makes up for in ripe, jammy fruit. Raspberries and cherries star, with pretty notes of vanilla and toast from oak barrel aging. Drink now, but decant it for an hour or two.
It opens with a delicate floral fragrance of white spring flowers accented by a whiff of apple and Alpine herbs. The steely, linear palate delivers juicy yellow apples together with a mineral note and lively acidity.
It opens with intense aromas of tropical fruit, green apples and a note of Mediterranean herbs. The juicy palate delivers white peach, pear, banana, papaya and almond alongside bright acidity that leaves a clean, refreshing finish. Drink now through 2016.
Bone dry and tart, this is made without oak, allowing the grape's natural acidity and flavors to star. There's a minerality to the lemons and limes, with hints of vanilla and white pepper. What a glorious partner for oysters on the half shell.
This blend of 50% Merlot, 40% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Cabernet Franc opens with aromas of cherries, berries, blue flower, sun-baked earth and a hint of balsamic herbs. The ripe palate delivers fleshy black cherry, milk chocolate, espresso and black pepper alongside chewy tannins.
Big, ripe and juicy, this solidly based wine also has great fruitiness. Black fruits, some bitter chocolate and licorice point to ripeness and wood aging. It has a rich texture, its spiciness bringing out the plum and damson fruits. For aging over the medium-term, drink from 2017.
It shows great depth of flavor, with delicious fresh berries, black fruits, balanced acidity and fragrance. The tannins are present, but given a great lift by the fruitiness. A wine to drink over the medium-term, from 2016.
From a small parcel in the Lamothe-Vincent vineyard, this rich, structured wine shows a strong relationship with terroir and minerality. It has power and intensity, while still preserving enough freshness. Drink from 2016.
Petit Verdot seems right at home in the southern Alentejo. This wine is fully ripe, powerful and genuinely fruity. Very juicy and packed with black fruits, it's full-bodied and dense. Drink from 2017.
This wine shows some of the natural tannic structure of the Douro while really bringing out plenty of fruit. It is rich, full of black fruits, ripe berries and elegant acidity. Firm and fruity at the end, it could age until 2016, but is good to drink now.
For a wine from the 2011 vintage, this ripe wine has plenty of weight. It's in the fruity, fresh spectrum but this is sustained by a young, solid and tannic core. Full of red fruits and sweet final acidity, it's for medium-term aging.
Perfumed fruits offer a ripe counterpoint to the solid tannins. Dark cherries, a touch of wood and layers of acidity come together well, leaving the chance to age further. Drink until 2020.
This juicy, fruit-forward Pinot Noir has fresh and primary aromas of ripe blackberries and cherries. Intense cranberry acidity and hints of dark toast and spice add balance and elegance. It's unabashedly pleasant drinking, but structured enough to carry well over the next 3–5 years.
The lightly delicate mouthfeel and brisk acidity testify to the wine's origins in cool-climate Marin, just over the Golden Gate Bridge from San Francisco. Intense flavors of strawberries and raspberries are uplifted by the toastiness of new French oak. This is a promising Pinot Noir for drinking now through 2018.
Made entirely from Trebbiano di Soave, this bright wine has a subdued nose that reveals white floral notes, tree fruit and mineral. The creamy, savory palate is much more expressive, delivering tart apples, ripe pear, white spice, mint and mineral alongside crisp acidity.
A ripe and fruity wine, it has great red fruits, dark cherries and soft, juicy acidity. The structured tannins add a delicious whisper behind all this fruitiness. This is a warm, rich wine, ready to drink.
It's high in alcohol, but without it, this Zin just wouldn't be as good as it is. It's bone dry and full bodied, and the crushed black peppercorn, blackberry and licorice flavors have a roasty, toasty edge that makes the wine particularly savory.
Something about this blush makes you think of warm spring and summer nights, sitting outside with friends. It's dry, crisp and clean, with strawberry, orange rind, vanilla and white pepper flavors.
Getting quality Pinot Noir for $20 remains a tough trick to pull, but this succeeds with fresh raspberry, white pepper and wet rock aromas. The flavors are delicate, ranging from cherry to cedar to Italian herbs, with some noticeable complexity.
This wine is heavily spiced from its wood aging. Fresher fruit flavors do come through to give black currants, bright acidity as well as firmer fruit structure. The wine still needs time, so drink from 2016.
An amalgam of 85% Tannat, 10% Cabernet Sauvignon and 5% Petit Verdot, this sports leather and blackberry aromas. The medium-bodied palate comes with tight, finely plaited tannins, and the boosted acids give the wine spine.
Notes of potpourri, pepper, dark cherry and raspberry are well established and alluring. It has an open-feeling core, with buffed tannins and a juicy, textured finish. 80% Cabernet Franc, plus 10% Cabernet Sauvignon, 5% Tannat and 5% Petit Verdot.
Dark in color, the wine is meaty, dry and brambly in wild strawberry. It's easy to drink and like, with a smooth, hearty finish.
Light in color it offers spicy, earthy overtones under thin layers of clove-wrapped cherry fruit and an easygoing texture.
Light in color, aroma and flavor, it would be perfect when you want something simply fresh. It has cherry and cinnamon aromas, light raspberry and cherry cola flavors, and a light touch of tannin and acidity to balance the otherwise soft texture.
Crafted from estate vineyards and a blend of Zinfandel, Cabernet Sauvignon and Malbec, this is a rosé rich in watermelon that's slightly effervescent and sweet, the finish speedy.
Aromas include underbrush, truffle, graphite and raw red cherry. These carry over to the palate along with strawberry, white pepper and mineral. It's elegant, with vigorous tannins and brisk acidity but it lacks fruit richness and body.
There's lots of espresso, roasted coffee bean and toasted wood on the nose that carry over to the palate along with black plum and vanilla. But there's not enough fruit richness to stand up to the astringent wood tannins.
This vintage of the winery's Sauvignon Blanc doesn't reflect the tropicality that's started to define the region. It has more warmth to the nose than the grassy pungency common elsewhere, but the stronger differences are on the palate, with cooked apple, squeezed lemon and a brisk acidity, though not a particularly long finish. Altogether, this is a mellow, subdued wine.
Blackberry liqueur and char flavors are bolstered by mouth-coating tannins and plush acids. A stout wine, this craves to be paired with a platter of grilled meats.
An instantly enjoyable, balanced rosé. It's fresh, clean and full of red berry fruits, with a crisp finish. Drink now.
With 70% Gamay in the blend, this attractive and fruity wine is dominated by bright cherry flavors and soft tannins. It is fresh with light acidity, a delicious summer red that would also work slightly chilled.
This is a bony, tight and herbaceous wine, sharp and crisp with bright apples and lime flavors. Light and full of minerality, it has a steely line that goes to its heart. Drink now, but it will be better in 2015.
There's something delicious about this wine, but it's not very Pinot Noir-like. Aromas of barbecue, bacon fat, smoked meats and strawberry carry through to the flavor profile, making it a perfect pairing for grilled ribs.
A medium-to full-bodied Pinot, it emphasizes full ripeness and rich texture. It looks slightly tawny in color on the rim of the glass, shows aromas of candied cherry, cola and fully developed fruit flavors. A dash of tartness keeps it alive on the finish.
Pear juice, toast and macadamia nut aromas hit the nose first. The broad-shouldered palate offers integrated acids, which contribute to the plush mouthfeel. Hints of brown spice and lemon give the finish intrigue.
The wine is initially soft and then begins to show a more steely, mineral character. That gives structure as well as citrus and crisp apple skin flavors. Very tight at this stage, it needs to develop, so give it until 2015.
There is a slight prickle on the tongue with this young wine. It's fruity and has some concentration from the 50-year-old vines. It's also totally dry and very crisp, with a delicious cut of acidity to partner that shellfish.
It offers weight and richness as well a more nuanced herb and green fruit character. Depth of flavor shows ripeness, while a crisp, tight aftertaste suggests it could age.
This herbaceous wine is fresh, steely and crisp. Bright acidity cuts strongly through the lively texture, giving apples, lemon and pink grapefruit. Developing fast, it is ready to drink.
Lean, green and mild, it's aromatically earthy and low on fruit. In the mouth, it's medium-bodied, with herbal, raspberry and red plum flavors. Peppery spice, a green note and raw heat drive the finish.
While this is obviously Sauvignon Blanc, it also has some rich creaminess that makes it more rounded and rich. The citrus and crisp apple flavors are well-integrated into this ripe wine.
This is the winery's “mother block,” the oldest planting that dates back to 1999. Bright and spicy—perhaps a shade too bright—it hints at volatility. Raspberry and cherry fruit are matched with balanced tannins and a soft suggestion of clean earth.
Easy-drinking and dry, it starts with pleasant strawberry and raspberry aromas that lead to moderately rich fruit flavors accented with white pepper. It doesn't feel as full-bodied as one might expect from Amador, and has an almost soft, silky finish.
This powerful wine opens with deep flavors and aromas of mint and dark chocolate. Its pleasure diminishes somewhat with an evolving taste of smoke and oak mid-sip that lasts subtly through the finish.
White apricot, spice and lemon flavors give character. Vibrant acidity lends the plump palate satisfying energy.
Wet slate minerality leads the brisk, tightly wound nose. On the palate, the wine is a bit perfumed, at least for how tight the nose is, with elements of crisp apple, pear and a touch of nectarine.
Medium to full in body, this has flavors of char, coffee and spiced dark cherries. It bears lax acids, and it finishes with a streak of clove.
Slightly funky scents of asphalt and sweaty socks come along with graphite, pressed blackberry and New Mexico chile. The palate is led by tobacco-laced zing, opening with boysenberry flavors, and finishing with decent acidity and mouth-coating tannins.
This is a Merlot-based blend, tightly wound, with tart berry fruit flavors. It gathers and concentrates into a dense, fruit-laden finish, streaked with espresso and dark chocolate. Though labeled simply Yakima Valley, it's all Red Mountain fruit, mostly from Klipsun.
Deep and rich aromas of blackberry syrup and wet slate kick off this excellent, approachable representation of Santa Barbara County's new Ballard Canyon appellation. It's both juicy and tannic once sipped, tasty with blackberry and slight cherry juice. Balanced with medium-range force, it provides evidence of how the region evens out Syrah's rougher edges.
Despite showing hickory and barbecued aromas of wood spice, smoked meat and stewed dark fruit, this Cabernet Sauvignon-dominant blend is firm and tight in the mouth, with smacking acidity. Herbal, lightly woody flavors of spice and earthy berry fruits finish bold, with olive and green tobacco notes. Drink through 2022.
Very appealing aromas of warm strawberry-cherry pie, red licorice and red rose promise ripe juiciness in this nearly equal blend of Syrah and Mourvèdre. The palate delivers with cherry cola, and the wine almost seems sweet, yet is bone dry, with nice grippy tannins as well.
Dark berry, mineral and baked notes control the nose on this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Carmenère, Petit Verdot and Syrah. This is full, round and firmly tannic, with oaky, minty flavors of black fruits and licorice root. Mocha, tobacco, chocolate and coffee flavors are nice on the finish. Drink through 2018.
Opulento is done entirely with Portuguese varieties. Quite young, grapey, rich and supple, it's packed with primary, brambly blackberry fruit with a smooth, chocolatey finish. This should age well for at least a decade.
Preserved cherries, cedar and smoke aromas lead the nose on this wine from the exciting Caliza team. The well-rounded flavors combine blackberry and cherry with tar and charred meats, and the strong tannins should calm down by 2016 and make for an even more delicious wine.
This opens with a pretty fragrance of rose, vanilla, black fruit and subtle oak. The juicy palate offers red cherry, black raspberry, white pepper and a hint of cocoa alongside supple tannins.
Aromas of violet and rose as well as notes of leather and spice waft from the glass. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, black raspberry, white pepper and savory herb alongside assertive tannins that still need years to unwind. Drink 2020–2030.
Dark, concentrated and powerful, this Carmenère-heavy blend pumps out huge cassis, blackberry and cola aromas in front of a racy, tannic, jet-powered palate. Baked, lemon-blackberry and cola flavors are earthy and forceful. Tobacco and cedar notes along with hard tannins push the finish. Drink through 2018.
This juicy, minerally blend is composed of 78% Cabernet Sauvignon and 22% Merlot. The winery aims to source from cool vineyard sites and this bottling is true to that in style—elegant and balanced, subtle in tannins and aged in only 50% new oak. Bay leaf and mint come to the fore ahead of clove.
Aromas of blackberry, cherry preserves, white chocolate and a hint of green pepper prepare the taste buds for flavors of forest-fruit, smoked pork, black pepper, violet and almond blossom. A trio of fruit, savory tones and spice travels across the palate on a layer of smooth tannins, leading to a smoky finish.
Dense and full-bodied, this delivers sensations of asphalt, menthol, grilled herb, mature black cherry and game. Reflecting the heat of the vintage, it's ripe and forward but firmly knit tannins give it a solid backbone that will allow it to age for several more years.
A Spanish grape variety produced this temptingly smooth, polished but earthy-flavored wine. It smells like new leather, seems young and still leesy and tastes deliciously fruity and supple. A bit decadent, it carries a long finish.
Made from 100% Demeter-certified biodynamic grapes, this wine has a bouquet of baked strawberry tart that makes it unique and full of personality. Amidst that is great peppery and earthy spice as well as a hint of dust, with a long-lasting finish.
The winery's larger-scale Syrah (and that's still under 2,000 cases), this is a friendly, sophisticated Rhône-inspired wine grown on the cooler Sonoma Coast. Red and blue fruits are expertly ripe and high-toned, accented by layers of classic cool-climate spice.
Aromas recall blue flower, new leather, truffle and crushed raspberry. The bright palate offers wild cherry, cake spices, alpine herbs and a sprinkling of cocoa. It's well balanced and fresh with firm but fine tannins.
A steely, crisp and mineral Riesling from the Froehn vineyard in Zellenberg. Great potential awaits in its tight aromatic fruits and zesty acidity. It offers structure, flavors of citrus and white currants from the organic grapes and a texture that demands aging. Drink from 2017.
The blend is 50% Merlot, 33% Cabernet Sauvignon and 17% Cabernet Franc, aged in 100% new French oak. The only wine from this producer that is a blend, it currently shows an abundance of barrel flavors. The baking spices overpower some of the signature elements that this distinguished vineyard imparts—the mineral, saline, iron and steel notes often found in Ciel's red wines. The fruit remains gorgeously ripe, and with a bit more bottle age those subtle flavors may reappear.
Warm, slightly sweet aromas of smoked applewood and hickory waft from this rich and decadent Syrah sourced from the Fess Parker estate. On the dark fruit-laced palate are black currant and cherry cola flavors, bolstered by black licorice and followed by a long finish of vanilla cream.
Crisp citrus aromas and fresh lemon and grapefruit flavors define this medium-bodied, appetizing and unapologetic wine. With lots of personality, a tingly texture and tangy finish, it's just the thing for appetizers and first courses.
The Reserva version of Mural makes a powerful statement. Dark in color and packed with concentrated fruit, it is full of tannins as well as brooding black-plum flavors. Spice and juicy acidity complete the ensemble. It's a solid wine that needs to age to soften the tannic structure. Drink from 2017.
This wine is a fine exposition of the structure and density of a serious Douro wine. A field blend, it is packed with dark berry fruits and sweet tannins, with a strong mineral element that reflects the tough schist of the vineyards. It's drinkable now, but the wine will be better in 2016.
Coming in at 12.8% alcohol—nearly unheard of for a Washington red, particularly in a warm vintage—it brings appealing notes of dark plum accented by black pepper and dried herbs. It's silky soft in feel with a dazzling sense of texture and purity with little apparent oak influence.
Earthy, ripe and a touch mulchy smelling at first, this blend comes around to show full plum and berry scents. The palate is bulky—a reflection of a warm vintage. Ripe berry notes house chocolate and fig flavors, with a touch salt finishing it off. Drink through 2019.
This was the first release from this new, Chardonnay-only project. With its mix of Columbia Gorge, Ancient Lakes and Columbia Valley fruit, it immediately set a high standard. Scents of orange blossom, mineral oil and toasted pecan mingle gracefully, and in the mouth there is a steely edge that provides structural support. Drink now through 2018.
Attractive tobacco, cedar, graphite, coconut and blackberry aromas are an ideal invitation to this balanced, full-bodied blend of Malbec, Carmenère, Cabernet Franc and Syrah. Flavors of blackberry, mocha, fig paste, spice and chocolate finish dark, ripe and slightly soft. Drink through 2018.
This savory GSM blend, which gets tiny 3% boosts of Petite Sirah and Tempranillo, begins with aromas of chicory coffee, ginger and a bit of blackberry fruit. Black cherry fruit leads the flavor, with espresso and tar elements contributing to noticeable tannic grip.
Mint, anisette and red berry aromas lead the nose. These follow through to the palate along with licorice, espresso, coffee, toasted oak and black pepper. It's tightly framed with drying wood tannins, but the bright fruit stands up to the strong oak influence. Drink after 2020.
While honey and white peach flavors ring pure and sweet, there's a slatey, mineral tone that penetrates deeply in this off-dry Kabinett. It's nervy and brisk, finishing long with zesty lime pith bitterness.
Full in the mouth, this rich wine is dominated by yellow fruits and ripe apricots lifted by a touch of toast. Great acidity conveys a fresh and tangy character. The wine is still developing as the full fruitiness comes forward. Drink from 2017.
The nose is initially rather closed but eventually reveals baked earth, leather, game and ripe black fruit. The taut, tense palate offers dried black cherry, toasted oak, mocha and vanilla alongside grainy tannins.
Fragrant and bright, this offers aromas of rose, iris, perfumed berry and a balsamic note. The palate is still rather closed, offering raw red cherry, star anise and chopped sage alongside tightly knit tannins and brisk acidity. It still needs time to come together. Drink 2018–2024.
From vines planted in 1958 in an appellation that straddles both Sonoma and Mendocino counties, this is an intriguing, interesting wine, mostly varietal, with 8% each of Mourvèdre and Syrah. Floral, it veers into leather and game, with a juicy backbone of red cherry and berry and earthy, textured tannins.
A velvety, sinewy blend of 40% Syrah, 40% Grenache and 20% Mourvèdre from estate-grown and nearby vineyards, this wine offers a lot to like, from textured tannins to succulent blueberry and plum. Intense and floral, it finishes with an explosion of white pepper.
Rose, red berry, mint and anise aromas unfold in the glass. The firm palate offers wild cherry, crushed raspberry, clove, anisette and a mocha note framed in bracing tannins and fresh acidity. Drink 2020–2031.
Brioche and vanilla-cherry are the stars in this full-bodied yet savory, herbal wine sourced mostly from the Oak Knoll District. Complex in flavor, it spikes in clove and cinnamon, finishing with a taste of gunpowder and tobacco.
This offers aromas of toast, espresso, scorched earth, red berry, clove and a whiff of leather. The lean, tense palate offers dried cherry, grilled herb, anise, coffee and tobacco but not much fruit richness. Tightly wound, bracing tannins and nervous acidity provide the framework.
From a fourth-generation farming family, this wine is sourced from the Niebaum-Tonella and Morisoli-Borges vineyards along the Rutherford Bench. It opens with a bouquet of sweetly ripened mango, peach and pear, which continue on the palate. Fierce acidity and a drop of anise form the backdrop of the wine, which finishes somewhat tropical.
This dense and dark wine offers spice and toast flavors. It has a big, generous feel, leaving room both for the dry, still-young tannins and for aromatic blackberry fruits. It does need to age, so drink from 2017.
Enticing aromas of red rose, wild red berry and aromatic herb lead the way. The palate offers dried berry, grilled herb, mocha and toast alongside assertive tannins and nervous acidity. Give this a few years for the tannins to unfold. Drink after 2020.
Leafy underbrush, truffle, woodland berry and toast aromas lead the nose. The chewy, solid palate offers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry, grilled sage and ground aniseed alongside bracing tannins and assertive acidity. Drink 2018–2028.
Aromas of mature berry, menthol, coffee bean, toast and dark cooking spice emerge on this bracing wine. The firmly structured palate delivers dried black cherry, espresso, French oak, licorice, chopped herb and tobacco set against bracing, close-grained tannins and the warmth of alcohol. The tannins will need years to unwind.
Showing the heat of the vintage, this offers earthy sensations of leather, scorched soil, truffle, stewed prune and ripe cherry. Bracing tannins provide the backdrop.
Based in Clare Valley, Wakefield sources this fruit from the cooler Adelaide Hills. Attractive rose-petal and dry earth aromas lead the way, followed by notes of black cherries and licorice on the palate. It's a bit full-bodied and muscular, a Pinot more for steak than salmon.
This opens with aromas of ripe berry, aromatic herb, pressed rose petal and a balsamic note. The rather lean palate offers sour cherry, crushed strawberry, sage and star anise alongside nervous acidity and tightly wound, astringent tannins that leave a rather raspy finish. Give this a few more years to unclench. Drink after 2019.
Old-vine fruit delivers an elegant Pinot that combines low alcohol with graceful details of pretty spices and red fruits. Young, tangy cherry flavors are precisely defined, with a delicate tension. This might very well improve dramatically with a decade or more of cellaring. Drink 2020–2030.
This wood-aged, fortified Moscatel has retained its fruitiness while also showing older, wood and toast flavors. Perfumed and fragrant, with integrated acidity, enjoy this offering soon.
Firm and polished, this barrel-fermented wine is just rounded off enough, without damping the bright, almost crunchy fruit. There's a light touch of toast and the structure for further bottle age to improve it. Drink 2017–2025.
Dark ruby in the glass, this wine has a nose of lingonberry and pomegranate with a hint of pine needles. It offers well-integrated fruit and cooling herb flavors, notably blueberry, cherry, mint, tarragon, and fennel. Ultimately fruit reigns over coolness on the velvety finish.
Perfumed berry, iris and baking spice aromas float out of the glass. The firm palate offers mature wild cherry, ripe raspberry, licorice, menthol and chopped herb while assertive but refined tannins provide support.
Full bodied, this estate-made, 100% varietal wine is sinewy and dense, a combination of ripe, luscious blackberry and blueberry, akin to a compote, seasoned in lavender and black licorice. Weighty, it'll pair well with wintertime meals, finishing with a suggestion of vanilla bean.
This 50-50 blend of Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon shows dried strawberries, violets, lilacs, chocolate sauce and cappuccino on the nose. The palate offers dark chocolate, strawberry and cherry flavors, along with a leveling effect from pencil lead and graphite. Watch for a future in this sort of blend from the Central Coast.
In keeping with the style of dessert wine in this region, this wine is beautifully balanced between acidity and intense sweetness. Together they give a wine that is so fresh, packed with a crisp texture as well as ripe apricot and white peach flavors that are just touched by honey. Drink now for its freshness, although it will be even better if aged until 2018.
Although red cherry and raspberry make an appearance, this vineyard-designate is otherwise all about forested pine and earthy pungency, accented by a pretty floral tease of rose petal. High in acidity and tannin, it takes time in the glass to settle down and find its balance, with a lengthy finish of black licorice and clove.
This wine offers a bouquet of baking bread with a touch of lemon curd. It presents a sophisticated palate of lemon, lime, orange blossom, piecrust, and eucalyptus. It has pleasing acidity that overcomes cooling herb flavors on the finish, and while it is light in the mouth, soft tannins persist on the gum line for a short while after swallowing.
Silky succulent raspberry and cherry flavors are a luscious counterpoint to the razor's edge of acidity that frames this impeccably balanced wine. It's ripe, fruity and forward, yet offers surprising elegance and length. Drink now through 2017.
Layers of pollen, dusty mineral and spice lend complexity to this concentrated wine full of yellow peach and fresh apple flavors. It's delicate and lithe in texture, yet punchy and penetrating.
Inky, rich and dense, this wine has an abundance of red and black berry pie going on that makes it decadently inviting. Thick on the palate, it's ready to pair with saucy cuts of meat, its background note of smoke the ideal way to bring out charred flavors in a food.
Beautiful crushed red cherry and lifted, polished mahogany notions mark the nose of this wine. The palate has wonderfully balanced freshness; its red cherry flavors are ripe but crunchy with a fine, firm structure for support. This has elegance, poise and delicious freshness.
Dark, brooding blueberry scents permeate this light-bodied red on the nose and palate. Fresh and tinged with white pepper spice, it boasts tart, crunchy fruit and ample depth despite the coolness of the vintage. Those who love reds with tension will fall in love. Drink now–2023.
This 100% varietal wine shines with high-toned red currant and raspberry flavors, exhibiting bright acidity on the moderately built palate. Tight-grained tannin provides structure, balancing the emphatic fruit.
Dense mossy aromas of blackberry are slightly murky. Forget about delicacy on the palate, this is full-bodied and clattering. Blackberry, cassis, black cherry and chocolate flavors finish spicy. This is at maximum ripeness. Drink through 2022.
Felton Road's blended bottling continues to impress. In this vintage, it reveals faintly herbal and peppery aromas layered against raspberry and blueberry fruit. It's medium to full in body, but with supple tannins that caress the palate on their way to a lingering, spicy finish. Drink now–2025.
Strong classy oak aromas lead blackberry and baking-spice scents on a potent but textbook RDD nose. This old-vines wine from a benchmark year is tight-fisted and linear in feel, with lemony acidity. Fully oaked flavors of blackberry and cassis sit comfortably on a bed of herb and spice notes, while this is oaky, spicy, steady and integrated on the finish. Drink through 2027.
Mike Sinor's pet-nat experiment scored big in 2016. This pink sparkler offers complex yeasty bread, crushed rock and turned clay aromas. Zingy and racy, it grabs hold of the palate. It's all about fascinating texture and refreshing acidity.
Wonderfully floral, brooding oak notes frame this inviting Sankt Laurent's red cherry fruit. On the palate, the oak comes across as vanilla, enwrapping the cherry fruit with richness. This is light on its feet but ripe and elegant with wonderful, lasting freshness.
This bottling, which is both a reference to the Lynyrd Skynyrd song and an ode to the grape growers, offers vibrant blackberry, slate and vanilla aromas. The palate is ripe and juicy but balanced, with tangy plum skin and dark spice flavors, framed by a chalky tannic structure. It's fruity enough for traditional California Zinfandel fans but complex enough to win converts.
Dark and sappy, with earth-driven complexity, this includes as many as 15 different clones planted on the far western edge of the AVA. Savory flavors bring black cherry, cola, smoke, and an underpinning of earth and black tea.
Spicy earthy briary aromas include a note of cola along with requisite berry and cassis scents. A slightly choppy mouthfeel and flavors of blueberry, cardamom, herbs and oak define the palate, while this finishes fruity and open. Drink through 2024.
Palliser's top-of-the-line Pinot is named after a different loved companion-dog every year. This is a nearly full-bodied wine, a bit chunky and muscular in style, with cherry and plum fruit and savory overtones beetroot and greens. the finish is long and richly textured, suggesting a reasonable lifespan. Drink 2020–2025+.
Dense aromas of fig, prune, cassis and blackberry are more mellow than monstrous. In the mouth, this Cabernet feels chunky, ripe and fully tannic. Savory berry fruit flavors and notes of cured meats and jerky finish a bit flat, with a lasting flavor of oaky chocolate. Drink through 2022.
Scoring slightly higher than the Alderpoint vineyard-designated wine, this basic Humboldt County bottling bursts with with black cherry aroma. It's medium-bodied, free of oak-driven flavor and loaded with fruit. Lively acidity and mouth-filling texture keep the cherry and raspberry notes echoing through the finish, striking wonderful balance in an appetizing, mouthwatering package.
The lovely, pure citrus hints suggested on the nose are fulfilled on the palate: aromatic tangerine peel and vivid, ripe Amalfi lemon. This has such lightness, ease and quintessential Wachau verve that you can't help going in for more. The finish is dry and irresistibly long.
This rich, dark take on the cool-climate vineyard delivers all the great Syrah components. Lavish cooked beef, fudge, loam and mint aromas accent its black currant and blueberry base. The palate is coated with soft, polished tannins that present savory beef and black currant flavors, steeped in peppercorn and lavender.
Malbec makes up just under two-thirds of this wine, with the balance Syrah. Quite pure fruit-forward aromas of blue fruit, herb and clove lead to a sweet plush rich palate that shows good midpalate density. The finish lingers.
This is a wine that showcases the Mourvèdre grape (80% of the blend). That gives a wonderful perfumed wine, bringing out fine tannins and a rich structure. Aged in wood for 20 months, the wine has a spicy edge to balance the ripe black-plum flavors. It is only just ready to drink and will be much better from 2018.
Spicy clove flavors enwrap rounded tannin and integrated oak in this structured, bold and full-bodied wine. A reserve-tier bottling, it shows deep red fruit, from cassis to currant, and a predominance of both the savory and tart.
Named after the year the estate was first recorded, this is a rich wood-aged wine. It has spice, stern tannins and layers of black currants and black plums that still need to have their head. The wine is dry as well as firm but will open up and soften to give a sumptuous wine from 2020.
Fermented in oak, this is the second wine from the estate. It has much of the fine concentration, the richness and the dark chocolate and black-fruit flavors of the first wine, just with a softer hue. It is likely to develop relatively quickly and generously. Drink from 2019.
This is the top wine from the Jean-Pierre Fayard family Provence cru classé estate. It is full of ripe red fruits supported by a mineral texture. The wine is generous, bone dry but packed with great fruitiness and finished with refreshing acidity. This sophisticated wine could do with a few more months, so drink from late 2017.
Ripe orchard fruit, acacia, Spanish broom and citrus aromas lead the nose of this wine. On the enveloping, structured palate, a honeyed mineral note adds depth to mature pear, lemon drop and hazelnut flavors. Fresh acidity lends balance. It's an amazing achievement for the cool, wet vintage.
Aromas of crushed violets, dried herb, smoked meat and plum lead to focused, pure marionberry flavors. The concentration and texture are impressive, as is the balance.
Earthy berry scents and charred aromas of grilled steak include notes of wood spice and vanilla. On the palate, this is deep, and shows a good mix of bright acidity and meaty depth. Flavors of toasty oak, chocolate, blackberry and pepper finish with persistent chocolaty notes and intense acidity. Drink through 2028.
Pinot Noir specialist Bryan Babcock explores this aromatic white grape, delivering a lush and creamy expression. Poached pear and orange blossom notes combine with a nutty quality on the nose, while the wine's creamy consistency meets buoyant acidity on the palate. Lush apple, pear and cashews flavors complete the picture.
From a vineyard planted above the town of Sonoma and named for its address, this small-production wine offers blueberry pie, chocolate and smoky oak aromas. Big and burly on the palate with sizable tannins, it integrates black cherry and burnt orange into the mix, finishing balanced and elegant.
This small-production blend of 85% Cabernet Sauvignon and 15% Merlot from winemaker Tom Rinaldi is rounded and juicy, with moderate acidity. It shows generous clove, cinnamon and black cherry flavors, the structure supportive and graceful.
This densely textured, deeply flavored wine showcases the beauty of old vines in Amador terroir. It has an opaque color, opulent clove, blackberry and cassis aromas, and ripe, jammy flavors that drench the palate yet are supported by tannins firm enough to keep it balanced and appetizing. Best after 2020.
The historic Santa Cruz Island Zinfandel clone excels more at the Rusacks' Ballard Canyon estate than their Catalina Island vineyard. Deep strawberry and red plum aromas mesh with cinnamon, mace and a touch of earth on the nose. There's enough tannic grip to show elegance, with bright red fruit and hearty sagebrush spice flavors.
Bruised apple and dandelion notes play spicily on the textured, slightly phenolic palate. The central streak of freshness brightens all aspects of the wine, which might gain complexity with a year or two more in bottle. For now it remains intriguingly poised between earthy richness and ethereal lift.
Minty cedar and red raspberry jam provide a freshness to this medium-built wine, subtle in spice and made in a soft, approachable style. Cherry and cinnamon round out the lengthy finish.
A handful of Cabernet Franc is included in this wine, which is full-bodied and quite robust, indicative of its mountain birth. While violet and rose florals accent dark cherry tastes, the tannin weight hints at meaty and spicy undertones.
Aged for a year on its lees, this wine is rich, tangy and refreshingly crisp. It is a Blanc de Blancs, with a strongly mineral character that adds a tight character to the texture. It will age a few more months in bottle, so drink from late 2016.
On the basis that anything goes with rosé, this wine is 100-percent Sangiovese, known locally as Niellucciu. The acidity that is typical of the grape is very present as are red cherry and tight fruit flavors. It is so crisp and lively, bouncing from the glass and leaving a beautiful array of red fruits at the end.
Scents of pressed white flower, orchard fruit, smoke, citrus and a whiff of nut lead the nose on this savory white. The round, medium-bodied palate offers mature pear, pineapple, peach and hazelnut while a note of flinty mineral lifts the finish.
Heady aromas of citrus and orchard fruit almost jump out of the glass. The savory, medium-bodied palate tastes of ripe pear, mature apple and creamy peach interspersed with energizing mineral notes. Fresh acidity brightens the creamy flavors.
Whiffs of cedar and baking spices lead to ripe blackberry and boysenberry flavors in this well-balanced and easy to appreciate wine. The ample fruit flavors are hard to resist, and the supple, modestly tannic texture is just right.
Blossoms and pink grapefruits scent this fresh, fruity wine. Off dry in style, it's concentrated in plush, tropical flavors of guava and mango yet calibrated neatly by a vein of lime acidity. It's guzzably fresh and approachable but refined enough for elegant dining occasions. Drink now through 2019.
This is ripe, rich and even a touch tannic—almost more of a light red than a true rosé. This makes it ideally suited to serve alongside summer's various grilled meats. Raspberry and cola flavors finish spicy and round.
This opens with alluring aromas of raspberry jam, blue flower, ground pepper and grilled herb. The savory, succulent palate offers juicy black cherry, black raspberry, clove and mineral. Firm tannins provide seamless support while fresh acidity lifts the ripe, mouthwatering fruit.
Full-flavored and very crisp, this wine has bright citrus and melon aromas, and more mellow pear and fig flavors that seem to smooth out the texture with each sip. It's well balanced and fascinating to taste.
Alluring scents of spring blossom, Spanish broom, crushed stone and ripe orchard fruit meld together in the glass. The medium-bodied palate is a bit rounder and juicer than previous vintages although it still retains elegance, offering white peach, green apple and juicy lemon drop alongside energizing mineral. Fresh acidity brightens the creamy flavors.
The King Estate name is intentionally printed upside down on the label, emphasizing the paradoxical nature of the wine, which has been barrel aged. As when oak is applied to Pinot Gris, it mutes the varietal nuances of the grape. So along with tart apple and pear fruit, you'll find a softer palate, with vanilla and buttered nuts in the aftertaste.
This is the producer's inaugural foray into the variety, sourced from the Oak Knoll area. The wine is inspired by the Loire Valley and its well-known Cabernet Franc. Coopered in French oak and stainless steel, it retains a subtle crispness and light body, the acidity supporting highlights of floral white fig, pear and honey.
Blistered red plum, savory herbs, black olive and a touch of green peppercorn show on the nose of this blend of 69% Cabernet Sauvignon, 11% Petit Verdot, 10% Cabernet Franc and 10% Merlot. Pencil lead and black peppercorns come through on the palate, spicing up the black-cherry, clay-earth and roasted-coffee flavors. It goes down easy.
Fresh cherry and berry aromas are easy to process and appealing. This has a full body that doesn't require much thought, while a lightly candied, peachy flavor profile ends in friendly, healthy fashion.
This wine brings spicy cranberry and strawberry, underscored with a whiff of leather. Flavors punch down and finish strong, with a leathery note that does not preclude the solid fruit.
Tart, young and focused, this brings cranberry and black cherry fruit forward, with a lively, spicy mouthfeel. Flavors are battened down with bracing acidity and firm tannins. Give this an hour or more of breathing time, or decant.
Returning to a robust, forward style in 2014, this is loaded with black cherry and mocha flavors. There's a touch of charred wood, and alcohol approaching 15%—this is no wimpy wine. It spent 11 months in 40% new wood.
Vibrant and savory, this linear white offers scents of ripe orchard fruit, white flower and a whiff of spice. The juicy palate doles out pear, apple, nectarine and mineral along with a note of ginger.
Stalky, gritty aromas of olive, eucalyptus and berry fruits are 100% Chilean. This feels big, wide and tannic. Flavors of roasted berry fruits are stalky and herbal, while this finishes with peppery, herbal overtones and gritty, chewy tannins. Drink through 2021.
Lighter bramble and red-currant fruits pop on the nose of this wine from the appellation's eastern end, as do baking-spice notes, crushed vanilla and hibiscus. It's airy on the palate, with tense cranberry and pomegranate, crushed oregano and dill, pencil lead minerality and a slowly simmering acidity.
This is fruity and ripe, forward and round, with appealing tropical fruit flavors. There's moderate, but adequate, acidity, and the flavors are rounded off with a toasty note from aging 10 months in 30% new French oak. Drink this now through 2018.
Vibrant and elegant, this offers aromas of wild flower and ripe red berry. The juicy palate doles out tart red cherry, fresh strawberry and mineral alongside tangy acidity. A mouthwatering saline note closes the bright finish.
Juicy bursts of ripe blackberry and blueberry are reined in by a firm backbone of acidity and cool herbal swathes in this full-bodied Lemberger. Just softly fringed by tannins, it's an approachable but sophisticated wine to enjoy now through 2020.
Bracing and tangy, this light-bodied wine has distinct melon aromas, similar flavors and tasty accents of white pepper and fresh fennel. While nicely reserved it also has complexity and great balance.
Earthy plum and raspberry aromas are subtle. This is tight on the palate, with firm tannins and slightly elevated acidity. Earthy, lightly toasted raspberry and plum flavors finish dry. As a whole, this is well made and exceeds expectations.
This is deliberately picked early to preserve acidity and aging potential. At nine years of age, the result is a wine that's just beginning to mature yet remains youthful, with bright lemon notes and a long, dry finish. If you prefer additional richness, hold until at least 2020.
Grapy aromas seem simple at first, but with time tarry black plum and citrus peel notes emerge. This is very tannic, arguably a bit too much so. Plum, blackberry and chocolate flavors end with a reverb of hard tannins. For best results, give this as much air as possible.
Extremely ripe and concentrated, this opens with aromas that suggest charred earth, toast, cured meat and roasted coffee bean. The accessible, monolithic palate offers raspberry jam, chocolate-covered cherry and a hint of vanilla alongside mature tannins, with the warmth of evident alcohol.
Grapefruit and other citrus flavors dominate this wine. Grown on chalk soil, it is structured and nervy, with a steely texture that promises some aging. Fresh and brilliant in its lively acidity, it is ready to drink now until 2022.
Deep pink and nearing mauve in color, this juicy blush shows watermelon Jolly Rancher candy, warm strawberry, and lemon butter on the nose. The mouthfeel is soft and voluptuous, with lime-laced pomegranate fruit, a touch of brown spice and a consistent acidic sizzle that rides the whole sip.
Commemorating the small boats that once plied the Loire river, this wine is fresh with a ripe yellow-fruit character that contrasts with the salty, tangy flavors to give the wine its texture and tight, steely structure. The wine will be best kept for a few months; drink from 2017.
Densely concentrated, this opens with aromas of baked plum, vanilla, espresso, oak and fresh mushroom. The robust, extremely ripe palate doles out stewed prune, blackberry jam and licorice while firm, close-grained tannins provide support.
Bursts of pink grapefruit and peach brighten this light-footed semidry Riesling. It's mouthwatering and juicy, intensified by streaks of lemon-lime acidity that extend a lingering finish.
Lush in winemaker Brian Loring's preferred style, this wine shows roasted cashews, seared lemons and baked apples on the nose. There's a walnut-oil quality to the palate, which is chewy and fat but not overreaching, with touches of tonic, cinnamon and caramel.
The flint soil behind this wine gives it a stony, smoky character that is allied to the mineral texture. It's a ripe wine, still young with pure fruit and an intense acidity. The wine needs to age, so drink from 2018.
With some wood aging, this limited-production wine comes from 45-year-old vines. It balances the lightly spicy wood flavors with crisp citrus fruits. The wine is still young, still fully integrating and will be much better from 2017.
This bottling, which is leveled a bit by the inclusion of 13% Zinfandel and 12% Grenache, shows blackberry jam, black cherry and concentrated lilac aromas on the nose. The palate is nicely layered with just enough tannic structure for optimal drinking now, combining flavors of blueberry and black cherry with caramel, milk chocolate and plum-skin tartness.
This blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 39% Merlot, 20% Petit Verdot and 1% Malbec shows umami-driven notes of beef char and campfire on the fairly tight nose, along with condensed violets and black cherry. Grippy tannins contain the palate, where layers of herbs, black fruits, asphalt, roast-beef char and blueberry pie show strongly.
This 100% Vranec presents the nose with black plum, blackberry, tobacco leaf and saddle leather and the palate with blueberry, dried herbs, tobacco and red plums. The finish is soft and elegant.
This wine is muted and still youthful, a blend of mostly Cabernet with 13% Merlot, 7% Syrah, 3% Petite Sirah and 1% Cabernet Franc. Pencil lead and dust fight for attention around big, bittersweet tannin and tobacco, not sure whether or not to let the black currant and cassis shine through.
Aromas of toast, oak, coconut, vanilla, mocha and mature plum lead the nose. Oak-driven sensations drive the robust palate along with ripe berry and a confectionary note. Scorching alcohol dominates the finish and throws this off-balance while bracing tannins leave an astringent close.
Aromas that recall charred earth, toast, oak, black plum, baking spice and espresso meld together on this. The generous, chewy palate doles out fleshy wild cherry, black raspberry, vanilla and mocha alongside supple tannins. It's straightforward, with immediate appeal. Drink through 2020.
Bright aromas of apricot, pear, botrytis and jasmine are followed by medium-sweet stone-fruit flavors, backed by vibrant acidity.
This blend of 45% Cabernet Sauvignon, 35% Merlot and 20% Mavrud has aromas of dried cranberries and ripe red raspberry. It is full bodied in the mouth with flavors of ripe black plum and pleasantly chewy tannins.
Forward berry aromas are more clean and fresh than complex. On the palate, this is similar, with bold, freshening acidity. Flavorwise, this leans into the black-fruit spectrum, while mint, spice and peppery flavors grace the finish.
Spiced cherry and berry aromas are common but good. A bright, acidic palate feels perfectly healthy and lively, while flavors of plum and berry fruits get a dusting of dry spice. A slow-driving finish offers a steady ending.
The nose is rather closed on this 80% Sangiovese and 20% Merlot blend but it eventually reveals whiffs of prune and leather. The evolved, dense palate is more expressive, offering blackberry jam, licorice and black pepper alongside round tannins. Drink sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit and freshness.
Smoothly voluptuous, this is a blend of 65% Cabernet Sauvignon with 20% Zinfandel, 10% Syrah and 5% Merlot. Leather, red fruit, cigar and syrup combine to full-bodied effect, ending in a thickness of structure and power.
Plum, violet, leather and menthol aromas float from the glass. The soft, smooth palate offers juicy wild cherry, crushed raspberry, vanilla, espresso and anise alongside round, polished tannins. It's easygoing and made to enjoyed young so drink soon.
Notes of apple, spice and brioche lead to tart citrus flavors. A lively mousse keeps the attention high.
Aromas of high-toned cocoa, vanilla, coconut, pencil lead and baking spices lead to plentiful black fruit flavors, with a lick of grainy tannins backing them up. The barrel notes get out front at times but it still provides a lot of quality and value.
Big and chewy, this starts with aromas of grilled porcini, underbrush, ripe dark fruit, dried herb and clove. Tightly packed tannins frame dried black cherry, prune steeped in spirits, ground pepper and licorice. You'll also feel the heat of evident alcohol on the midpalate that throws it somewhat off-balance.
Plum, vanilla, sunbaked earth and espresso aromas take shape in the glass. The structured palate offers dried red cherry, roasted coffee bean and vanilla alongside fine-grained tannins that clutch the finish.
This deep garnet Kosher blend of 55% Rubin and 45% Merlot is scented with black plum, blackberry and freshly ground black pepper. It flavors are those of dried cranberries and tart cherry. It has balanced tannins with a pleasantly tart finish.
This Kosher red blend from Bulgaria is comprised of 55% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 5% Rubin and 5% Mavrud. It has aromas of cranberry, pomegranate and dried Mediterranean herbs. It's flavored with black plum and dark cherry and presents the palate with a well-rounded, soft tannin finish.
Syrah takes the lead on this blend followed by a healthy dose of Mourvèdre. It's the latter that is initially evident, with generous white-pepper and meaty aromas followed by fresh flowers, raspberries and a touch of coffee. The red- and blue-fruit flavors show a fine sense of balance, with plenty of hang time on the finish.
The raspberry aromas are bright and jammy. The flavors are sumptuous yet elegant, going down easy.
Effectively half-and-half Merlot and Cabernet Franc, this is a tremendous wine. With very fine tannins, spice from a touch of wood and swathes of ripe fruits give this wine its concentration and its huge potential. The wine has weight and a dark, dense structure that will allow it to age for many years. Drink from 2027.
Marked by both reduction and oak, this wine feels lifted with acidity, opening in a vibrant shock of strawberry and Mandarin orange. Velvety layers subtle tannin carry a spicy finish of clove and salty sea air. A beautifully balanced, complete wine.
This is an immensely dense wine that is going to be a classic. The dark tannins are still lined with wood aging but that will go because the fruit underneath is also just as dense and intense. Blackberry, black plum and damson plum give power and sweetness. This is a great wine with huge potential. Drink from 2028.
The classic blend for Figeac with its 32% of Cabernet Sauvignon and 28% Cabernet Franc gives a beautifully dense wine with great tannins. The wine is perfumed while the complex tannins are finely cushioned by the generous black fruits and acidity. It is a wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2026.
With 83% Sémillon in the blend, this wine has weight as well as richness. At the same time, it has a crisp edge, a smoky character from wood aging and the fine balance between citrus and more exotic fruits. It is a wine to age for many years. Drink from 2022.
This is a major wine. It has enormous tension, structure and a core of dark tannins. Amid all this, the wine is also packed with fruit and concentrated blackberry and black-plum flavors. It will age slowly and steadily with its enormous structure and concentration. Drink this wine from 2027.
With the amalgamation of Château Magdelaine into this one property, the estate is now a considerable 58 acres. The wine is now performing in top gear. Powerful tannins drive the mainly Merlot blend with 10% Cabernet Franc. It still shows signs of the wood aging and these will disappear to leave a richly endowed wine with a fine future. Drink from 2026.
The label of this vintage is designed by David Hockney in memory of Philippine de Rothschild. It is a powerful wine in the rich style of Mouton with strong black-currant fruits from 81% Cabernet Sauvignon. It is dense and dark, ready to age for many years. Drink this impressive wine from 2026.
This wine from Jordan Fiorentini is a stunning study in how to achieve extreme richness with elegance. Deep black cherry, violet, espresso, milk chocolate and vanilla pastry show on the nose. On the palate, chalky, soft tannins bring forth baked blueberry, star anise and clove flavors, with floral tones and acidic lift on the finish.
This is possibly the most savory rendition of Syrah made on the Central Coast, each vintage as feral as the last. This bottling shows bloody lamb, crushed peppercorn, soy and barnyard elements on the nose. The palate is tense with tarry structure, revealing unusual kelp, stewed peppercorn, black miso and teriyaki flavors.
With its high proportion of Cabernet Franc (45%), this is a finely perfumed rich wine. It has great tannins, a smoky character that comes from the wood. The tannins are quite marked, giving a tight firm edge to the wine that otherwise has generous fruitiness. This is a complex wine, impressive, and likely to age over many years. Drink from 2028.
An extra dollop of toasty oak amplifies the deep black-cherry core. Cedar, pipe tobacco, espresso and dark chocolate highlights wrap around and through the finish. This is a wine with power, precision and exceptional detail. Drink now through the mid-2020s.
A best-of blend from several of the producer's vineyard sites, this wine explodes in flavor and complexity as though celebrating each site's individual beauty and potential. Black pepper and crisp orange and pomegranate flavors show through its layered and focused texture—a savory package with a seemingly endless finish.
This is a powerful wine, made to age for a long time, from this estate which is performing in top gear. Complex tannins and dark fruits both make their presence felt. It has weight, ripeness and a dense structure. A great success, it is unlikely to be ready to drink before 2027.
What to mention first? A hint of mossy earth, chamomile tisane, Cox Orange Pippin apples or lemon zest? All of these aromas dance on the nose. They are still totally shy on the taut, dry and concentrated palate. For now, it is mossy citrus that is most aromatic while rich fruit still needs to unfurl. This strikes a note of utter purity, of something soaring and bright. Right now this is totally brisk, invigorating and refreshing but its true colors won't show for some time. Drink 2020–2035.
Somehow, in a stellar 2014 lineup, this vineyard designate stands out, as the 2012 did when it was the Wine Enthusiast 2015 wine of the year. Power and precision work in tandem here. The fruit blend conjures up melon, berry, cherry and more, and the oak has the gentlest touch to its presence. There's tremendous midpalate concentration, and the clear sense that this could age for decades. Let's just say drink 2018 through 2030.
This powerful wine has a superb mix of the crispest fruit and great structure. Blackberries and black currants shine through the tannins, expressing the liveliness of the vintage. It is so well delineated with everything in its place. The wine is certainly going to age for decades. Drink from 2027.
Here's an impressive wine that is so ripe and with great structure. It is a major wine with a dark complex texture and the finest acidity. The wine is very complete, all the elements in place from the black fruits to the tannins to the hints of wood aging. Now at the top of the tree in Saint-Emilion's classification, the wine will take years to mature. Drink from 2027.
A fragrant and pure nose of slightly floral tangerine peel opens this wine. It offers a ripe fruit-driven dance of aromas and freshness—think tangerine, ripe lemon, crisp apple and a beguiling floral dimension. Lovely now in its primary-flavored youth, it's certain to become even more disarming in the future. Drink 2020–2035 or later if you like it really mature.
Enticing perfumed berry, violet, new leather and a truffle scents emerge in this textbook Brunello. On the savory, full-bodied palate, licorice, clove and chopped herb flavors accent a juicy core of ripe black cherry fruit. Firm, refined tannins provide structure. It's already tempting but hold for even more complexity. Drink 2020–2032.
Underbrush, ripe berry, new leather and Mediterranean herb aromas slowly take shape in the glass. Showing youthful tension, the vibrant palate delivers red cherry, pomegranate, white pepper and pipe tobacco notes framed by bright acidity and taut, refined tannins. It already shows great balance and finesse but is still young and tight. Drink 2022–2035.
This almost 100% Cabernet Franc single-vineyard wine is perfumed and ripe. The velvet tannins and ripe black fruits are fine, structured and with enormous potential. The wine is generous, opulent and worthy of serious aging. Drink from 2027.
Fresh and full of finesse, this radiant red offers rose, forest floor, woodland berry, new leather and pipe tobacco scents. The palate delivers juicy red cherry, crushed raspberry, wild herb and white pepper notes, finishing on star anise. Taut, refined tannins and bright acidity give it intensity, lift and balance. Give it time to develop to its full potential. Drink 2020–2032.
This single-vineyard Carignan is living proof of how impressive the variety can be, especially when hailing from a top year like 2012. Schisty aromas of blackberry, chocolate and mocha are smooth and alluring. This feels focused, pure and juicy, while dense blackberry, mocha and baking spice flavors tail off with exotic notes of Malabar pepper, toast and the finest black coffee. Drink through 2023.
This is a finely structured wine with dark tannins and intense black fruits. The estate, with its biodynamically grown fruit, has given an impressively pure wine, packed with tight serious tannins and a fine structure of black-plum skins and intense acidity. It is direct, firm and with a huge potential over many years. Drink from 2027.
This riveting wine displays the exceptional finesse and precision that fruit from this AVA can deliver. It's Pinot Noir expressed in the most subtle and demanding way. Beautifully orchestrated red fruits, sappy acids, lush spices, perfect balance and an immaculate mineral-soaked finish are all on display. Drink 2018 through 2030.
Barley sugar, butterscotch, demerara sugar and the faintest hint of maple syrup suggest the richness of this SGN right away. The concentrated sweetness is countered with illuminating freshness and holds tons of tangy spice. Wow. This is incredibly concentrated and has an elixir-like bundled energy that seems to be alive. The effect is both mesmerizing and invigorating.
This wine shows a high degree of spiciness with a rose petal-like flourish—a stellar first effort from a new estate vineyard along Eastside Road. Brambly raspberry and dark cherry flavors seem brushed by a subtle waft of campfire smoke and molten chocolate, all swirling together in the glass as a lengthy, lively palate framed by acidity.
This is a top example of the classic Australian blend. Cabernet (57%) provides cigar box aromas and elongates the finish, while Shiraz (43%) fills out the midpalate. The combination is full-bodied yet muscular, generous yet firmly structured. Essence of cassis is framed by hints of vanilla and cedar, while the long finish shows off chewy tannins and mouthwatering acids. Drink 2023–2035, and posssibly beyond.
A tightly coiled rich wine that has great acidity as well as a lively structure. Touched by spice from wood aging as well as intense citrus, it is fruity, firm and strongly textured. Drink this impressive still-young wine from 2022.
This wine is fruity, fresh with a underlying tannic character. The fruit and the dryness combine to produce a wine that is firm while rich, showing juicy Merlot and some medium-term potential. Drink from 2017.
Layers of new wood show through as a perfumed, minty character. Tannins are firm and dry over the juicy black fruits. The wine is light, fresh and balanced, ready to drink from 2017.
While sun-ripened apricot and wildflowers aromas abound on the nose of this dry Riesling, the palate is more mineral and restrained. Lemon-lime acidity is zesty and fresh, leading to a brisk, biting finish.
Already the color of this 2011 Merlot-dominated wine is beginning to change from its brilliant red. The palate also shows signs of maturing with fresh fruit giving way to more leathery, spicy flavors. That suggest this will not age long, so drink from 2016.
Hushed aromas of dark berry and a touch of cedar lead the nose on this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. The simple palate offers black cherry and a hint of white pepper alongside delicate, fleeting tannins.
IFragrant with sweet vanilla and nutmeg from new oak, this has a very full body and velvety texture. All that oak somewhat masks the fruit aromas and flavors, so this may be too extreme for purists.
While ripe bramble wood and herb tones are elegant, there's a slightly candied nature to the red cherry and berry flavors in this light-bodied Cabernet Franc. It's brisk, with a zesty, spry finish.
Freshness and a light herbaceous note carry this medium-bodied wine from the aroma through the flavors and to the finish. While it's is a touch sweet, bright citrus and lively green notes keep the wine balanced and appetizing.
A full-bodied white, this is less fruity and more savory or mineral in character. Aromas are oily, a bit earthy and slightly mineral, while flavors show light pineapple and butter notes.
The bright red fruit on the nose of this wine is joined with graphite minerality and sweetly toasted oak. The palate is quite fruity, boasting Bing cherry and strawberry reduction sauce, picking up complexity from cracked black pepper.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah, this easygoing rosato doles out bright red cherry and pomegranate flavors alongside bright acidity. It's simple but well made.
Deep in color, big in flavor and full bodied, this is a rustic, straightforward wine. It smells like very ripe blackberry and black cherry, tastes dense and feels full, tannic and firm-textured.
This conveys aromas of leafy underbrush, toasted oak and a weedy note. The lean palate offers dried red berry, green herb and astringent tannins but not much fruit richness.
Aromas recall coffee, toast and weedy underbrush. The lean palate offers licorice, espresso, black pepper and dried fruit flavors alongside clenched, aggressive tannins. While the tannins need to unwind, it lacks the fruit richness for lengthy aging. You'll also notice the heat of alcohol on the close.
Aromas of oak, toast and coconut carry through to the palate along with spirit-soaked plum, fig and anisette. It doesn't have enough fruit richness to support the extremely astringent wood tannins.
Berry, dried sage, licorice and menthol aromas lead the nose. The warm, one-dimensional palate offers toasted oak, coconut, spirit-soaked prune and vanilla alongside sharp, astringent tannins.
This wine has great fruit with soft tannins and accessible soft black currant fruitiness. A slight earthiness at the end needs to become better integrated. Drink from 2017.
This direct and appealing wine offers notes of maple, sugared plum and woodspice. Flavors are light but plush in feel, straight down the fairway.
This wine offers notes of herbs, brown stems and blue fruit. It's medium bodied with tart acids and chalky, astringent tannins.
Almond and a hint of raspberry register on an otherwise neutral nose. This feels round and citrusy, while flavors of orange, nectarine and pithy pink grapefruit end with a slight note of oxidation. Drink immediately.
Caressed in forested earthiness, this wine is both crisp in acidity and creamy in baked apple and crème brûlée, a layering of lemon meringue on top. It is integrated and balanced up until the finish, where a firm grip of oak takes hold.
After a huge blast of mocha opens the show, there isn't a lot hiding behind the curtain. The palate is big, sticky and rubbery in feel, while flavors of baked berry, chocolate, oak and coffee finish chewy but also briny and herbal.
Despite some heat and burn to the nose, there's nothing not to like about aromas of pecan pie and toffee. This Moscatel sweetie is solid in feel, but mostly around the edges; the middle palate is a bit weak. Flavors of brown sugar and caramel are more sweet and simple than complex.
Lighter in style, this offers notes of brambly blackberries, whole green pepper and dark coffee, with tart acids and dry, gritty tannins.
A blend of Syrah (59%) and Merlot, this wine is downright fruity with red currant, rose hips and fruit leather. It's pleasant and easy drinking, though the tannins seem a bit unresolved.
Light wood aging sets the scene for this crisp and herbaceous wine. Citrus fruits give a juicy character and contrast with the mineral texture coming from the stony vineyard. It's a fresh wine to drink now.
A dark, dry and firm wine, this is developing slowly. Its fruits show the influence of Cabernet in the blend with a strong tannic and black currant element. It will need several more years aging, so drink from 2018.
Tough tannins are right up front with this wine. It has fruit and acidity, suppressed at the moment although enough to allow the wine to develop. The structure and smoky character are already promising an elegant, if always dry wine. Drink from 2017.
A fresh, blossomy perfume persists throughout many of Heron Hill's Rieslings, but this one is comparatively green and herbal in tone. Refreshing and dry, it's marked by lime and sage notes that inlay a zesty finish.
Calling a wine romantic is perhaps a new approach for Bordeaux. The wine itself is ripe and jammy, with wood tannins that will be softer in a year. Drink from 2016.
As the name suggests, this fermentation brings in substantial flavors of herb and stem, cloaking its tight blueberry and black cherry fruit in that stiff, tannic robe. Let it breathe for some hours, or better yet decant it well in advance of drinking.
In this fresh and fruity wine, lively flavors of strawberry and watermelon are buoyed with adequate but not over-riding acidity. The finish is clean and lingering, inviting the next sip.
Open and fruity, this delicious, already drinkable wine is a typical Portuguese blend that's dominated by Touriga Nacional. It has an attractive perfumed aroma along with toasty wood flavors and black currant freshness. The combination is full, forward and delicious now.
Spicy, gritty cherry aromas are dry and hard, but honest and fresh. This Cab Franc has a narrow, tannic, punchy mouthfeel and oak-rich flavors of red plum and currant along with vanilla. The finish is lively at first then fades away quietly.
Quite intense aromas of plum brandy and kirsch are boosted with scents of iron and black pepper on this bottling. The palate shows stewed cherries and strawberries, and there is both acidity and tannic grip, proving this to be a complete and solid wine.
A rich blend that includes the local Abouriou grape gives a structured, firm wine that has both tannins and juicy black fruits. The oak aging still shows in the spice and vanilla edge that underlies the fruitiness. It should be aged, so drink from 2016.
From vineyards at the top of slopes above the river Lot, this balanced wine moves easily between red cherry acidity and dark, young tannins. Still young, the tannic structure needs to mellow and will soften with time. Drink from 2018.
A really good wine for the price, this offers a dark color and varietal aromas of black cherry, black olive and faint dried herbs. Next it layers handsome oak on the rich and fruity flavors. The texture is quite dense without being heavy; while somewhat tannic the mouthfeel is not drying.
A blend of 40% Sangiovese, 20% Merlot, 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and 20% Syrah, this offers subtle aromas of mature black-skinned fruit and a whiff of white chocolate. The palate offers dried black cherry, espresso, cracked pepper and anise alongside packed tannins that leave an astringent finish.
This is very flavorful, fruity and full bodied. It maintains a sleek texture in spite of considerable tannins that keep it feeling dry. Aromas are like wild berries and cherry blossoms, the flavors are exotic and very ripe, and the finish keeps adding more fruit nuances.
Aromas of cedar, cinnamon and earth make a fascinating welcome, and the flavors are equally vivid, adding tart raspberry and pomegranate. This is medium bodied, lively with acidity and firm tannins, and nicely lean in profile.
Unusual notes of lemongrass and pine lend a curious twist to crisp apple, lime and honey tones in this deeply mineral auslese. Piercing acidity shocks the midpalate.
This medium-bodied blend of Grenache, Syrah and Carignan delivers just what you'd expect from the appellation, it just does it better than most, at a modest price. Hints of bay leaf and wild thyme accent black cherry fruit and a touch of licorice, while the supple texture features a just slightly astringent finish. Drink now–2018.
Dusty, briny citrus and apple aromas lead to a palate that's calm and only mildly bubbly and active. Lightly pickled lime and tangerine flavors finish dry, slightly bitter and briny, with a coarse but crisp feel of seltzer.
This light, airy varietal Pedro Xímenez offers leesy, melony aromas. The palate has a creamy feel bolstered by acidic zip. Leesy, waxy flavors of lime, melon and apple finish long, with tropical leanings. Drink this dry PX now.
This winery produces luxuriously rich wines, and this blend of 47% Merlot, 30% Petit Verdot, 12% Malbec and 11% Cabernet Sauvignon fits right in. Aromas suggest vanilla-cherry cream, fresh cracked dark chocolate, mulberry extract and root beer. Cola, blackberries and woody herbs show once sipped.
Melon, peach and honeysuckle swirl together on the very ripe nose, thanks to the blend of 42% Viognier, 24% Marsanne, 21% Grenache Blanc, 11% Roussanne and 2% Picpoul Blanc. Tropical fruits also power the peachy palate, yet it finishes crisply with a mineral sharpness, smartly combining the warm climate yet unique soils of the appellation.
A smooth and ripe wine, packed with black fruits and some firm tannins that lend support. It is structured, juicy and full of strong spice, with dense texture. It should age a while longer, so drink from 2017.
This fruity, smooth and light wine shows a pale copper color. Attractive aromas resemble maraschino cherry and spiced apples, and a rich, mouth-filling effervescence brings the slightly sweet fruit flavors to the front.
This well-known California brand is gently dipping its toe into Oregon. This is a sturdy, well-crafted effort with an interesting mix of kiwi, lime and pear fruit, wrapped in biscuity barrel flavors. Seamlessly smooth, it offers enough acidity to keep everything balanced.
Cranberries, raspberries and black cherries are in the fruit bowl here, with a hint of wet hay. Still sharp and spicy, it's astringent and offers a light hint of dried tobacco. As with many of the winery's reds, the basic material is excellent, and shows great potential as the vines mature.
Ripe and forward, this brings brambly berry fruit and plenty of Dr Pepper soda flavors front and center. It's a smooth ride to a quick finish. Both scents and flavors show a hint of pine needle.
Smooth and elegant, its fresh citrus and apple fruit flavors are buoyed on firm acids. Despite the high alcohol, the character of this sipper is lithe and light.
Fleshy peach, melon and papaya aromas set up a round, pulpy, full-bodied palate housing a creamy weight. Grapefruit, lime, melon and guava flavors finish a bit herbal, with shades of tarragon.
Ample aromas of blue flowers, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of baking spice come together in the glass. Made entirely with Sangiovese aged in large oak casks, the warm palate doles out dried black cherry, anise and dried herb alongside fine-grained tannins. It's shy on freshness so drink through 2016.
Rustic, woody aromas of elderberry, sweet cedar, black peppercorns and vanilla-chocolate syrup entertain the nose on this estate-grown wine. There's an almost citrus-like, lemon-rind acidity on the palate that frames the cranberry and dried blueberry jam elements, still showing a woody edge.
Dried herb and green olive form an elegant bouquet for this mountain-grown wine that offers a mouthful of big, leathery tannin and oak. Larger bodied, it remains supple in spirit with a backbone of acidity that keeps it balanced through the tobacco-laden finish.
Briny citrus, green melon, bell pepper and grassy aromas are 100% coastal Chile. This has a citrusy yet round palate that's lively but not overtly complex. Salty, briny flavors of lime and white grapefruit ride through the finish.
This opens with fruity aromas of ripe red berry, crushed blue flowers and a whiff of leather. The straightforward, approachable palate doles out crushed wild cherry, black raspberry, espresso and baking spice. Supple tannins and fresh acidity balance the juicy flavors.
This fine-tuned blend, which also includes 5% Viognier, brings ripe stone fruits forward, with a light vein of toast. Seamless and tight, it punches past its weight with excellent staying power.
Made from 100% Demeter-certified biodynamic grapes, this wine has a bouquet of baked strawberry tart that makes it unique and full of personality. Amidst that is great peppery and earthy spice as well as a hint of dust, with a long-lasting finish.
The winery's larger-scale Syrah (and that's still under 2,000 cases), this is a friendly, sophisticated Rhône-inspired wine grown on the cooler Sonoma Coast. Red and blue fruits are expertly ripe and high-toned, accented by layers of classic cool-climate spice.
Aromas recall blue flower, new leather, truffle and crushed raspberry. The bright palate offers wild cherry, cake spices, alpine herbs and a sprinkling of cocoa. It's well balanced and fresh with firm but fine tannins.
Deep ruby in color, with aromas of black cherry, chocolate and sage, this blend has enticing flavors of blackberry, cherry, salted caramel and menthol. Fruit and savory tones are well integrated alongside smooth tannins, and the bright finish shows a lasting note of menthol. Fine Terroir Selections, Misa Imports.
From a blend of grapes that includes Touriga Nacional, this wine is serious and dense. It has a solid texture along with concentrated dark-plum flavors. It's a powerhouse of firm tannins, juicy fruits and a fine layer of spice from wood aging. Drink after 2015.
This deep and rich wine is as much about tense structure as about fruit. It's a full-blown, very ripe wine that hasn't lost one iota of elegance. From selected fruit, this is a serious wine for aging. Drink from 2017.
Smoky and meaty, this medium-bodied Cab from rocky Atlas Peak offers sensible acidity wrapped around spicy, dusty tannins and a savory aftertaste of tobacco.
Winemaker Anna Monticelli spent a harvest at Cheval Blanc in Bordeaux and worked under Philippe Melka at Seavey and Bryant Family. She leaves her own mark on this structured, silky, robust and rich Cabernet, bright in red cranberry and clove. Firehouse Vineyard is on the winery estate and given to floral and herbal notes, both of which suggest themselves slowly here.
This is a modestly priced Napa Cabernet that's feral and brambly, the flavors well-composed and soft in black plum and black cherry. It's well balanced and structured, with ample tannins and length on the finish.
Fresh red rose, blue flower, bright red berry and baking spices lead the nose on this structured wine. The palate delivers juicy red cherry, cinnamon and white pepper alongside notes of mint and balsamic herbs. It's a bit austere with bracing tannins that need time to soften. Drink after 2017.
Fruity frills of strawberry surround a core of black New Mexican chiles, with cinnamon and clove emerging the longer one sniffs. There's nice tension between the fruit flavors and the nearly bell pepper greenness. Throw a chill on it and serve with barbecued pork.
Fresh-squeezed apple juice, grapefruit spritzer and nearly sweet cherry aromas sit atop minerality on the nose of this blend of 46% Viognier, 19% Verdelho, 19% Vermentino and 16% Sauvignon Blanc. There's a lot of tart acidity, with a lingering apple flavor.
Distinctive and generous, this white Rhône-style wine is made from Sierra Foothills grapes by a seasoned Napa winemaker. It tastes like vanilla, hazelnuts and pears, has a creamy texture, feels layered with fruit and spice notes, and has good acidity balanced by richness of flavor.
This sweet red wine shows aromas of toasted hazelnut and ripe plum on the nose. The nutty character continues to the palate, with additional tones of chamomile tea and aromatic herb.
A rich and medium sweet wine, full of spice, lychees and ripe fruits. There is a tangy texture, a strong sense of minerality as well as herb, yellow fruits and nutmeg flavors. It is still young and needs time. Drink from 2017.
This rich, concentrated wine is velvet smooth, with tannins enveloped by ripe berry and plum fruits. Wood aging has added to the the rounded character. Despite its approachability, it will age well, so the wine is best drunk from 2018.
This Syrah-based wine is dense, concentrated and seriously ageworthy. It is weighted by concentrated black fruit, with solid tannic structure and fine acidity on the finish. Drink after 2016.
This is firm and solid wine is a blend dominated by tannic Touriga Nacional. Ripe berry fruits on the palate offer juicy acidity for balance, and a perfumed hue gives character and nuance. This impressive wine needs to age, so wait until 2016.
Searingly crisp and yet generous and intense, this Chardonnay from one of grower Ulises Valdez's prime properties is muscular and expansive, rich in apple and honey and a seasoning of mouth-tingling spice. It exemplifies California exuberance. Let it breathe for a while, or age 2020–2025.
High-toned acidity rules the day here, the wine a tempting mélange of fresh grapefruit, lemon and apple, the texture smooth and succulent. The flavors are long lasting and complex.
This dry, subtle and elegant Riesling is an exception to the rule of semisweet and obviously fruity California versions. It smells like crisp apples and white peaches, tastes quietly rich but with spicy, earthy accents, and has a pleasantly thick texture.
Sourced from the excellent Lawrence Vineyard, this checks out as dry on the official Riesling scale, posted on the back label. It's yeasty and rich in the mouth, with lightly honeyed fruit flavors of lemon curd, candied orange peel, key lime and guava.
This proprietary blend starts with a very gamy though thoroughly enjoyable nose of charred meat, coffee, berry and compost. On the palate, there is espresso, dried herbs and black cherry, proving to be a complex and savory yet very easy-to-like wine.
Bartlett pear and freshly squeezed lime juice carry the nose, while flavors of green apple, pear and lime rind drive the crisp, elegant palate. The finish shows nuance, with a slightly astringent mouthfeel.
This is a young, firm and seriously tannic wine that will need several years to age. It has structure, a sense of the tough terrain of the upper Douro. Concentrated and dense, it's a wine that will develop; best after 2017.
With its firm structure and strongly steely tendencies, this wine will repay aging. Orange citrus is woven into the texture of the wine, showing acidity and a taut, tangy aftertaste. It will need time to come together, so drink from 2018.
A vibrantly aromatic wine, with notes of petrol, marmalade, citrus and flowers. It's rich and honeyed, with a lightly smoky, lingering finish.
This is a fine wine, with great structure and ripe fruit. Dark tannins, a tense mineral texture and blackberry tones are all there, giving a wine that's rich and full bodied. Drink from 2017.
High density planting of a vineyard on the slopes of the Azeitão mountains has produced a rich and seriously dense wine. It has enormous amounts of spice, oak-aged flavors and bitter tannins. The red fruits are lost at this stage in the welter of other flavors. but with time its true, impressive colors with shine. Drink after 2016.
From vines grown in decomposed quartz and limestone at 2,300 feet on the eastern side of the Salinas Valley, this presents nose-tickling aromas of squeezed lemon, flint and roasted apple. It's juicy and well-oaked on the palate, with vanilla, lemon and pear qualities set against a tropical fruit canvas that centers on guava.
It opens with a delicate floral fragrance of white spring flowers accented by a whiff of apple and Alpine herbs. The steely, linear palate delivers juicy yellow apples together with a mineral note and lively acidity.
There's a fresh, green herbal vein to this semisweet Riesling that lends a crisp verve to concentrated peach and apricot flavors. Zesty, lime-tinged acidity leads the long, elegant finish.
While lush and ripe on the nose, with aromas of stone fruit and citrus, this dry Riesling is remarkably lean and steely on the palate. The lemon-lime acidity is searing, but highlights an intense minerality that lingers through the finish.
Musky, smoky notes are seductive against a backdrop of ripe peach and preserved quince flavors in this sprightly yet juicy off-dry Riesling. Delicate mineral tones and steely, bracing acidity accentuate the long finish.
Smoke, spice and earth notes mark this deeply mineral auslese, adding depth and complexity to the sunny palate and peach and apricot flavors. A beautifully executed calibration of savory and sweet, it finishes with a twang of struck steel and lime.
Charbono is an old-fashioned variety that used to be planted in Napa Valley, before Cabernet Sauvignon took over. This bottling is bone dry and tannic, with lots of acidity. The wine is made in a style of 30 or 40 years ago, which is meant as a compliment. It's a complex, food-friendly wine of considerable interest.
Aromas include cut grass, exotic fruit and crushed tomato vine. The palate delivers green melon and creamy white peach brightened by lemon zest and crisp acidity.
Made in a drier, tarter style than the winery's Russian River bottling, this Chard favors elegance over opulence. It's streamlined and crisp, with subtle notes of green apples, kumquats and honey, gently touched by smoky oak.
Note the remarkably low alcohol! Not surprisingly, this is a searingly tart wine, the acidity further emphasized by stainless steel fermentation and aging. Nonetheless, flavors are rich and deep, a lemon and grapefruit explosion that seems to demand raw oysters. Definitely a wine for acid lovers.
This is an oaky Chardonnay, but the oak has been nicely integrated. The buttered toast notes complement the tropical fruit, peach and lemon-lime contributions of the grapes. Excellent acidity completes the balance.
Almost black in color, this very dense, complex wine is tough at this young stage. It needs several years for the powerful tannins to soften, giving a chance for the ripe black plum skin and berry fruits to show. Drink from 2018.
Wood aging adds a smoky character and toasty flavor, while also smoothing out the tannins. From the rich 2009 vintage, this wine shows both plum fruits and firm tannins. It could still age, drink until 2018.
This is a beautifully ripe, smooth wine. The wood aging adds a touch of vanilla to what is rich blend of Aragonez, Trincadeira and Touriga Nacional. Black berry fruits, rich tannins and just the right amount of acidity make a wine that will be ready to drink in the medium-term. Drink from 2016.
A field blend of Grenache Blanc, Marsanne, Roussanne and Viognier, this delightfully floral wine exudes spring flowers and fresh, just-ripe peach. The wine is dry, although the finish has a subtle suggestion of honey. A delicious wine for spring and summer sipping.
An alluring fragrance of Spanish Broom and stone fruit leads off. The juicy palate delivers creamy green apple, white peach and citrus alongside bright acidity. Flinty mineral marks the dry, clean finish.
Coming from the north of the Vinho Verde region, this is a blend of Alvarinho with Trajadura. A hint of honey comes along with almonds, ripe apples and oranges. Aromatic, softly textured and ready to drink, it's a sophisticated, dry Vinho Verde.
While dry in style, this bold, intensely concentrated Riesling is rich in notes of sunny peach and honeysuckle. Luscious on the palate, it's cut by a bright line of tangerine acidity that lingers on the finish.
Waxy lanolin and spice notes add complexity to tart stone-fruit aromas on this sprightly Riesling. Semidry in style, the palate drips with peach nectar flavor, balanced by bracing tangerine acidity. It finishes long, with a refreshing spray of herb notes.
Whiffs of musk and violet perfume offset ripe peach and tangerine notes on this off-dry, yet intensely fruity Riesling. Bracing lime-tinged acidity and fresh herbal tones lend grace and vitality through the finish. Balanced and elegant in style.
Char and roasted coffee notes lend a brooding, smoky backdrop to bright red berry and cherry flavors in this full-bodied Pinot Noir. Cranberry acidity bristles the palate, leading a long finish marked by firm but fine tannins. It needs another 3–5 years in the cellar to integrate, but should mature elegantly.
Char and roasted coffee notes add toasty nuances to ripe black-cherry flavors in this penetrating Pinot Noir. A vein of brisk cranberry acidity runs through the palate, adding zip and verve. It's finely textured, but bold tannins linger on the finish.
A fantastic bargain at $14, this nuanced wine balances heady saffron and spice notes against a backdrop of ripe mango and yellow cherry flavors. It's lavishly mineral on the midpalate, with striking lemon-lime acidity that drives an elegant, herb-accented finish.
A fruity, fragrant wine, it has a light structure, soft tannins and generous, juicy red berry fruits. The balanced touch of wood aging smoothes out some of the sharp corners. Drink this attractive wine from 2016.
The blend is Syrah, Merlot and Malbec. The wine is full-bodied, dry and tannic, and not showing well now, despite a wealth of blackberry jam, cassis liqueur, grilled meat and black pepper flavors. It's fancy in oak and feels lush, but those tannins are stubborn. Age until at least 2022.
Aged in large casks, this structured but elegant wine starts with aromas of lemon pastry and mature yellow apple that carry over to the palate, along with peach and energizing mineral tones. The linear palate is balanced by fresh acidity. This should develop more complexity 2016–2017.
This full-bodied wine is loaded with sensations of fragrant white flowers, ripe tropical fruit, juicy yellow peach and tart green apple. The creamy palate is brightened by fresh acidity and energizing mineral notes. It's well balanced, with more depth than most other Pinot Grigios.
Aromas of Spanish broom, tropical fruit and graphite take the lead. The smooth, creamy palate offers white peach, melon, almond and mineral brightened by crisp acidity. Enjoy now through 2016.
This Pinot Bianco boasts elegance and structure. It leads with aromas of white flowers, yellow apples and a hint of toasted oak that all carry over to the palate alongside crisp acidity. It has a nutty finish and nice length.
Of course, this wine is too young to drink now. However, its ripe fruit, sweet fresh acidity and red plum fruits all promise a fine future. There is a good juicy, full aftertaste. Drink from the end of 2014.
Dusty tannins dominate this opulent, full-bodied wine that isn't going to be shy as it develops. With its superripe black fruits and juicy acidity, it is fruity, but the power that is the most obvious element. Drink this bombshell from 2016.
Cinnamon and crushed blackberry appear in equeal measure on the nose of this wine. The palate presents juicy, ripe but still wonderfully tart fruit, with a touch of pepper around the edges. The aftertaste reveals fine, smooth and firm tannins and a lip-smacking, well-judged freshness. A joyful combination.
Spiced plum, vanilla, espresso and nutmeg aromas take center stage while the round, enveloping palate offers fleshy black cherry, raisin licorice and clove flavors. Pliant, polished tannins provide smooth support. Drink through 2020.
Spicy clove flavors enwrap rounded tannin and integrated oak in this structured, bold and full-bodied wine. A reserve-tier bottling, it shows deep red fruit, from cassis to currant, and a predominance of both the savory and tart.
Aromas of crushed violets, dried herb, smoked meat and plum lead to focused, pure marionberry flavors. The concentration and texture are impressive, as is the balance.
Earthy berry scents and charred aromas of grilled steak include notes of wood spice and vanilla. On the palate, this is deep, and shows a good mix of bright acidity and meaty depth. Flavors of toasty oak, chocolate, blackberry and pepper finish with persistent chocolaty notes and intense acidity. Drink through 2028.
Pinot Noir specialist Bryan Babcock explores this aromatic white grape, delivering a lush and creamy expression. Poached pear and orange blossom notes combine with a nutty quality on the nose, while the wine's creamy consistency meets buoyant acidity on the palate. Lush apple, pear and cashews flavors complete the picture.
From a vineyard planted above the town of Sonoma and named for its address, this small-production wine offers blueberry pie, chocolate and smoky oak aromas. Big and burly on the palate with sizable tannins, it integrates black cherry and burnt orange into the mix, finishing balanced and elegant.
The nose on this ripe Tinta de Toro is dense, bold and brimming with black-fruit aromas. Following the nose, this tastes of blackberry, cassis and various spices, while finishing black-fruit flavors are lightly herbal, spicy and complex. This offers a touch of everything good, and even more when it comes to ripe fruit. Drink through 2024.
Slightly baked aromas of raisin, blackberry and caramel are deep and dense more than bright. This Malbec blend is well built, with spicy flavors of berry fruits and cocoa. The oak on the finish is toasty and leads to dryness and a sense of fineness. Drink through 2023.
Not the easiest vintage in Marlborough, this wine stands out as a notable achievement. It's aromas are slightly feral, adding a funky edge to scents of smoke and grilled white nectarines. The silky texture stands out, as does the long, citrusy finish outlined by hints of pencil shavings.
Smoky and oaky with a punch of dark chocolate, this full-bodied, brambly red bursts with clove, cinnamon and blackberry flavors. It develops further layers as it opens and is built for either cellaring or immediate enjoyment.
Dark smoky, stout aromas of licorice, molasses and blackberry feed into a jammy palate with rock-hard, clamping tannins. Plum, blackberry and blueberry flavors are loud and intense, while this finishes with density, complexity, chewy tannins and a jammy essence. Drink through 2028.
This refreshingly balanced, light-on-its-feet wine doesn't hold back in terms of black fruit and subtle richness. The dark currant and cherry highlights are accented with dark chocolate, clove and white pepper notes, the oak quiet and supportive of the overall structure.
Saturated berry, cassis and black-plum aromas are densely packed onto the nose of this tightly built iron-fisted Rioja. Berry, plum and cassis flavors are lightly toasted and spicy, while this is juicy and bold on the finish. Best from 2020–2024.
Silky and plush, this medium- to full-bodied Pinot Noir features a delicate interplay of cinnamon and clove with cherry and pomegranate. It glides easily to a long finish, picking up a hint of bacon or wood smoke along the way. Drink now–2023.
Rich golden and red apple notes play on the nose of this appetizing wine. The palate echos the aroma with both ripe generosity and crisp freshness. It's juicy and textured with a pervasive freshness that brightens everything and a wonderfully clean and lip-smacking finish.
Fennel, oak, apple and pear notes blend together in this full-bodied wine with robust structure and richness. Crème brûlée flavors join ginger and nutmeg elements, as the acidity refreshes and rewards.
Friendly, lemony freshness plays on the nose and palate, where it's joined by spicy grapefruit peel notes. That zestiness pervades the taut, straight-lined and utterly refreshing palate. This is concentrated, clean and full of citrusy verve.
This supple, seductive and sublime white is tart with acidity and bolstered by supportive oak. Pear, quince and an underlying hint of apple blossom combine in a lovely and focused expression on the palate that feels at once classic and balanced.
From the producer's own Kivelstadt Vineyard, this compelling 100% varietal wine is sanguine and meaty. Black olive and black pepper flavors add to the larger savory landscape, bolstered by generous body, tannin and oak. It takes its time unraveling in the glass.
Another outstanding Renwood vineyard designate, this has great structure and abundant fruit flavors without overt oakiness. Full-bodied, smooth and seamless, exudes a wild berry and mineral character in the aroma and flavor, and keeps everything in balance due to moderate tannins and acidity.
Fresh-pressed strawberry, sugar beet, lavender and rose petal aromas show in this botting, which is a complex take on Tempranillo. Black plum and mulberry flavors are delicately presented, leading the intriguing and buoyant palate, which is light in body but full of elegant flavor.
From the property of a longtime vineyard manager for the winery, this bottling is deliciously unique. The nose abounds with earth, dried cherry, anise, roasted meat and herb aromas. The structure is solid and somewhat gripping, presenting deep red-fruit flavors with dried herb accents, driven by balanced acidity.
Another of the producer's mountain reds, this features rough-hewn tannin that grips the palate with tenacity and power, yielding to show juicy acidity and fully realized cedar, dusty cranberry and cassis flavors.
Crisp green apple and Conference pear scents vie for attention in this wine. The slender palate adds a backdrop of yeasty savoriness yet remains sprightly and zippy. Riper fruit adds a more sonorous tone as it finishes, feeling full of citric verve and totally appetizing.
One of four monopole Central Coast bottlings from the Los Gatos winery, this bottling offers rich red cherry, vanilla, rose petal and watermelon scents on the nose. The palate is dry and structured, showing tart Montmorency cherry and hints of licorice and eucalyptus.
This cool site, set on sedimentary and volcanic soils, brings a blend of five clones into focus. Dark and juicy, muscular and complex, it weaves together plum and cherry fruit, a whiff of truffle, and finishes with a touch of coffee from the barrel aging.
With dusty gravel at its mineral core, this Cabernet Sauvignon layers rich red currant, cassis and clove flavors, suggesting French toast drizzled with compote. It has a juicy midpalate and a lingering finish that reverberates toasted, spicy oak.
Char and wood grain are prominent on a smoky nose with blackberry and black-currant aromas. Intense tannins and layered depth make for a full palate, while this tastes ripe and toasty, with blackberry and chocolate flavors. On the finish, mild herbal complexity mixed with latent oak are stirring. Drink through 2026.
This wood-aged rosé is complex and intense. The rich fruit is only one part of the structure of the wine which is perfumed, mineral and, for a rosé, dense. It is surely intended for food with its concentration and ripe aftertaste. The extra year of aging has made it ready to drink.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, this bears flavors of cherry, plum, grilled herb and pastry spice that are sustained by the chalky tannins and tender acids.
The name of the wine is, of course, a branding exercise in itself. Luckily, the wine inside the bottle is ripe and enjoyable. It's fruity, soft, gently tannic with juicy red fruits and black plums, all finished with fresh acidity. Drink now. Screwcap.
Enjoyable in a non-fruity style, this full-bodied wine has oaky, smoky, cigar-box aromas and flavors that hover over modest plum notes. A broad texture helps the flavors linger on the palate.
An unusual medley of aromas include orange peel, dill, mint, thyme, espresso and oak. The palate offers coffee, toasted oak and sugary vanilla but it doesn't have much fruit richness. Astringent tannins give a short, bitter finish that dries out the mouth.
This is an edgy wine with a mix of berry and cassis aromas along with harsh leather. It's mouthfilling and potent on the palate, where flavors of spiced berry and herbal-infused plum finish scratchy and with all the muscle one could ask for. Cariñena, Garnacha and Syrah is the blend.
Toasted pastry-crust and macadamia nut notes frame core aromas of white orchard fruits. The palate tastes concentrated and feels round, and snappy acids invigorate the finish.
This white wine from Serbia has aromas of caramelized pineapple and elderflower. It is lively and energetic, with flavors of Japanese apple and ripe pineapple.
Smoky and herbal upfront, this is a light-bodied wine with silky-soft tannins. The flavors are on the savory side, ranging from hickory smoke and hung game to dried mint and thyme. Worth trying with roasted or braised lamb.
Plum and berry aromas are fresh, youthful and the slightest bit briny. In the mouth, this standard-fare Rioja is juicy and a bit rubbery in feel. Flavors of berry and plum match the nose, and the finish is fresh and grabby.
Bright, unadulterated plum and wild berry aromas set up a firm, grapy, powerful palate. With dark, almost syrupy flavors, this is a ripe Tempranillo that finishes with bounce and oomph.
Savory aromas of hickory and slow-cooked meat are highly suggestive of southern barbecue. This feels blocky and tannic, with resiny notes to the palate. Clove, woodsmoke, BBQ sauce and other savory flavors are barrel driven, while the finish registers as dense, roasted and a bit hot.
This second wine from Duorum is softly ripe, broad and fruity, full of bright red fruits as well as fresh acidity and gentle tannins. Just hinting at wood aging, it's a wine to drink soon, from 2015.
There is juicy blackberry at the core of this Cab, 2% Petit Verdot blended in for concentration and color. Dusty, the accompanying flavor players include clove and herb.
Warm and ripe, it's roundly textured, full of yellow fruits and rich acidity. It has developed well, giving a palate feel that is soft and fruity. Enjoy now.
Creamy, balanced and tropical, it's a bang-up deal for the quality. Deeply layered in fig and vanilla, it offers sweet aromas of honeysuckle on the nose. Stock up for parties or all your midweek meals.
Fresh, lively and brimming over with fruit flavor, from lemon to lime to peach. The appearance is light gold, the aromas are very immediate and effusive, the texture tangy and the finish light with a hint of sweetness.
With a motto of “affordable luxury,” Layer Cake sources Chardonnay fruit from the fringes of pricey appellations. In this case it draws from Monterey County vineyards near the Santa Lucia Highlands and Santa Barbara County vineyard between the Santa Maria Valley and the Sta. Rita Hills. The results are solid for the price, with expressive aromas of honeydew and vanilla soda, and a palate of juicy melon and toasted oak. It is slightly boozy, so very much in the cocktail style, and is not for those afraid of oak.
While there is a delicious fresh crispness to this wine, a richer, creamy side expresses itself in the baked apple and pear flavors. It finishes bone-dry while very fruity. Drink now.
Rambunctious and brawny, it's burly in dark color and oaky black cherry and blackberry, with a pastoral earthiness. Higher in alcohol and tannin than many other Marimar wines, it's velvety on the palate, finishing with a meaty taste of game or bacon.
This is a perfectly good rosé that's 90% Tempranillo and 10% Viura, hence the Clarete name. Fresh aromas of nectarine and citrus show a touch of yeasty vanilla, while the palate feels pure and zesty. Orange and pink grapefruit are the key flavors, and the finish is snappy.
A smooth, wood-aged wine that is rich and toasty. With a touch of honey to show the ripe side of the apricot and white peach fruit flavors, the wine is soft, now mature and ready to drink.
Aromas recall nail polish remover, mature plum, mint, sage and thyme. The palate displays red cherry-berry, balsamic notes, white pepper and sage. Astringent wood tannins give an abrupt and drying finish.
A tasty, lighter style of Pinot Noir, it offers fresh cherry and raspberry aromas, juicy fruit flavors and a delicate texture. There's enough complexity to keep you coming back for another sip.
Bright and fruity, it has soft tannins layered with black currant fruitiness and a dry core. It's juicy, ripe and developing well. Drink from 2016.
The wine is all juicy fruit, black cherries with just a modicum of tannin to hold it together. It's fresh, ripe and immediately attractive. Ready to drink now, but with those tannins it should also age 2016–2017.
The wine is sweet, very rich and smooth. Firm tannins are cushioned by the ripe berry and red plum fruits to give a spicy wine with touches of wood, finishing with pepper from the alcohol. Drink from 2017.
With attractive peach and baked-apple flavors, this is immediately appealing. It balances acidity with a lightly off-dry style that's both fresh and ripe. It can be drunk now, but will be better in 2015.
A note of cupcake batter hits the nose first, but it quickly integrates into the chief aromas of raspberries, ladyfingers and herbs. Powdery tannins provide some traction to the otherwise lithe palate.
This wine begins with aromas of oak, coffee bean and toast. The palate lacks fruit richness, offering instead dried tobacco leaf, oak extract, espresso, dried sage, vanilla and mocha alongside bitterly astringent tannins.
The wine is tight and nervy, very fresh, crisp and citrus dominated. It delivers a cool feel and delicious acidity that brings out a light character, as well as a bone-dry, mineral aftertaste.
This 100% varietal wine provides a perfect spot to explore this up-and-coming vineyard. Aromas of herbs and barrel spice are all high toned, with the fruit still seeming locked up. The sweet black-fruit flavors provide significantly more generosity, with the lightly dry tannins bringing some grip. Pair it with a juicy steak and it will surely unfold.
With significant amounts of Mourvèdre (15%) and Grenache (8%) blended in, this drinks more like a GSM than a Syrah. Cranberry, herb and woodspice aromas are followed by tart, sleek fruit and smoke flavors that linger.
Dark red-violet in the glass, this blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Grenache has a nose of black cherry, green pepper and cocoa. It may be a little too cool for some tastes, but bright fruit and slightly luxurious tannins make up for the fennel and eucalyptus flavors that are joined on the palate by cherry, pomegranate and orange zest. The smooth finish goes completely cool for a second but winds up in a burst of bright fruit.
Underbrush, dried mushroom, ripe dark-skinned fruit and cake spice aromas lead the nose on this accessible, robust red. The warm, hearty palate offers dried black cherry steeped in spirits, licorice and the heat of evident alcohol. Velvety tannins provide the setting.
Partly aged in wood, this ripe, full wine has rich cherry fruits and some balanced tannins. It's a structured wine while also juicy and with good acidity. It needs to age another few months, so drink from the end of 2017.
This 100% Sangiovese shows aromas of stewed prune, menthol, star anise and a whiff of coconut. The evolved palate shows raisin, dried black cherry and sweet vanilla. Wood tannins leave a somewhat astringent close.
This blend of Rara Neagra and Malbec has aromas of black raspberry, black cherry and spice. There are flavors of black plum and vanilla toast with rounded tannins.
This cool-vintage blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Cabernet Franc brings light aromas of woodspice, and dried and fresh herbs, with dark cherries lurking in the background. The acids are bright and tart, while the tannins bring some grit, with coffee flavors lingering on the finish. It needs time to come together.
Reduced and extracted aromas burn off over time to unveil a full-bodied expression of juicy red fruit and cedar that opens in the glass. It finishes in tea and leather.
The melon, pear, tropical fruit and almond butter aromas are bright and effusive, while the flavors are considerably more delicate and subdued, showing a lovely sense of nuance and tension. It doesn't quite all come together but provides plenty of intrigue.
Dusty, melony aromas hint at the tropical end of the aromatic spectrum. This is predominantly austere in feel, with a touch of leesy weight. Lemon, pineapple and mango flavors end with general softness propped up acidic cut. Drink immediately.
This garnet-colored Ruen smells like fresh cherry juice, pomegranate, and pencil lead, not to mention a pleasant whiff of petrol. It is soft on entry, tasting of black cherry and pomegranate with chewy tannins.
Heady potpourri notes of rose petal and spice, lychee and melon abound on this high-impact but refined Gewürztraminer. Off dry and delicately framed, it's a refreshing sip marked by sunny squirts of tangerine acidity. Drink now through 2017.
Clove, vanilla and other spice aromas are followed by full-feeling fruit flavors which are backed by soft, velvety tannins. It offers much to enjoy.
This is a particularly savory style of Tavel, not terribly fruit, yet still sowing ample weight and breadth on the palate. The aromas and flavors are reminiscent of honey, wet stone and white chocolate, finishing with a dry, extra stony finish.
A 100% Roussanne wine is rare in its normal origin, the Rhône Valley. Here, in the mountains, it has produced this intensely perfumed, tightly textured wine that is both unusual and delicious. Crisply textured and with spice and a dry edge, the wine could be aged for a few months. Drink from the end of 2016.
Forward berry aromas are more clean and fresh than complex. On the palate, this is similar, with bold, freshening acidity. Flavorwise, this leans into the black-fruit spectrum, while mint, spice and peppery flavors grace the finish.
Notes of apple, spice and brioche lead to tart citrus flavors. A lively mousse keeps the attention high.
Aromas of high-toned cocoa, vanilla, coconut, pencil lead and baking spices lead to plentiful black fruit flavors, with a lick of grainy tannins backing them up. The barrel notes get out front at times but it still provides a lot of quality and value.
Big and chewy, this starts with aromas of grilled porcini, underbrush, ripe dark fruit, dried herb and clove. Tightly packed tannins frame dried black cherry, prune steeped in spirits, ground pepper and licorice. You'll also feel the heat of evident alcohol on the midpalate that throws it somewhat off-balance.
Plum, vanilla, sunbaked earth and espresso aromas take shape in the glass. The structured palate offers dried red cherry, roasted coffee bean and vanilla alongside fine-grained tannins that clutch the finish.
This deep garnet Kosher blend of 55% Rubin and 45% Merlot is scented with black plum, blackberry and freshly ground black pepper. It flavors are those of dried cranberries and tart cherry. It has balanced tannins with a pleasantly tart finish.
This Kosher red blend from Bulgaria is comprised of 55% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 5% Rubin and 5% Mavrud. It has aromas of cranberry, pomegranate and dried Mediterranean herbs. It's flavored with black plum and dark cherry and presents the palate with a well-rounded, soft tannin finish.
This wine is brooding in black and red currant, with dusty, well-integrated tannins and a curl of smoke. Big bodied, it finishes in a puckering way, hefty on the palate.
White flowers, eucalyptus and a slight whiff of petrol greet the nose. In the mouth, it is all about green olive, white peach and green apple. The finish is soft and elegant.
Grass, gooseberry and grapefruit wind their way around a light-bodied, crisp and ephemeral wine, aged mostly in stainless steel, with a small percentage in neutral French oak. Tiny bits of Sémillon and Sauvignon Musque make their way into the mix, for a wine that's textured and refreshing.
A blend of 60% Prokupac and 40% Cabernet Sauvignon this Serbian wine smells of red cherry and blackberry. It is full bodied, while tasting of black cherry and blackberry. The finish is fruit filled with a touch of leather.
A stalwart, sturdy rendering, this smells like ripe plums and dark spices. It tastes full of fruit but is shaded nicely by slightly smoky, peppery notes. The body is full and the texture firm with tannins and acidity. Best drink this after 2018.
Tight lemon peels and a restrained, almost chalky minerality greet the nose on this single-vineyard expression of Viognier, which also shows Gala apple, a shred of nectarine and a pinch of baking spice. A clean and pithy palate packs lemon custard, tangerine zest and grapefruit flavors.
Softly layered in integrated oak, this 100% varietal wine dances in raspberry, citrus and leather, with a touch of tar. Full bodied, it's a reserve-level wine that may open further in the bottle and glass.
Aromas of mature berry, espresso, exotic spice and a whiff of menthol emerge on this full-bodied red. The palate shows dried black cherry, coconut, licorice and roasted coffee bean alongside fine-grained tannins. This isn't a classic Nebbiolo but it's polished, balanced and will appeal to those who enjoy oak-driven sensations.
Aromas of black currant, orange zest and lemon thyme set the scene for a three-way balancing act of fruit, savory and cool flavors. On the palate, notes of black cherry, lingonberry, eucalyptus, mint and thyme stand out, and gentle tannins ride on through a cherry and mint finish.
Winemaker Rob Folin scores again, crafting a silky and sleek Pinot from the Ribbon Ridge AVA. Fig, plum and chocolate flavors are wrapped into a smooth and supple wine that is already heading towards maturity. It's delicious now, so there is no reason to wait on this one.
As with Clos de Vougeot in red, every producer needs a Corton-Charlemagne white. Aegerter's contribution is soft, honeyed and warm. It has hints of the concentration proper to this Grand Cru vineyard, allowing for a perfumed, ripe fruit character. It will develop quickly and will be ready to drink from 2017.
This is a finely integrated, rich wine that shows impeccable balance between dusty tannins and juicy dark berry tones. The wood aging shows through in a smooth texture that gives a sense of richness to the ripe fruit. This is an elegant wine that can be drunk now although it will benefit from some aging. Drink from 2017.
This wine is dense, ripe and full of rich apricot and peach flavors, with a line of crisp lemon and a background of toast. Full in the mouth, this generous wine will be ready to drink from 2017. It comes Louis Max domaine vineyards in and around Mercurey.
This is a rich wine with smooth tannins that are integrated into the ripe black fruits. It's packed with juicy fruitiness. It also has a dry core and acidity, both of which will allow the wine to age. Concentrated, it is ready to drink now, although it will be better from 2017.
Ripe berry, menthol, truffle, leather, cured meat and tobacco aromas come together in the glass. The palate offers mature black cherry, licorice, clove and black pepper alongside fine-grained tannins.
While dry in style, this late-harvest Riesling seems drizzled in honey and nectar. It's delicately framed, dancing spry across the palate and finishing crisp and bright. It's an elegant invigorating wine that drinks well now but should continue to meld nicely till at least 2024.
Rose, violet, baking spice and red berry aromas come together on this graceful wine. The bright, subtle palate offers crushed raspberry, red cherry and white pepper alongside fine-grained tannins. A star anise note signals the close.
Fermented with roughly one-third whole clusters, this wine brings a juicy mix of blackberry and black-cherry fruit front and center, with the AVA's wet-stone minerality underneath. This young wine seems built for the wine cellar. If you plan to drink it sooner, give it an hour in the decanter. Drink 2020–2030.
Muted on the nose, this offers shy notes of anise and fennel that arises out of the glass over time, buoyed by a generous proportion of golden apple and honey. It veers briny around the full-bodied finish.
This inviting wine smells sweet and jammy. It tastes spicy, lightly oaky and like ripe raspberries. Full bodied and high in alcohol, it's also smooth in texture, mouthfilling and rich. Flavors like chocolate and blackberry mark the finish.
While 2013 was not a great Port year, it produced some attractive Vintage wines such as this one. It is likely to develop quickly, already showing ripe fruit and generous dried prune flavors along with the firmer tannins. Drink this from 2020.
This is a smooth and fruity wine that is named after the matriarch of the family. It has some structure and a dry core, although it is the rich red and black fruits that create its main character. It is developing well, with a fine juicy streak. Drink from 2017.
A solid blend of aromatic floral notes and spicy fruit, this opens with scents of rose petals and moves into a midpalate featuring red plum. There are hints of dried pine needles and overall a palate-pleasing texture.
Plump blueberries, slate, gravel, turned earth and a light fennel character show on this wine, which comes in a custom bottle exclusive to the appellation's estate-grown Syrahs. The palate shows a lively acidity that briskly expresses the black pepper, black currant and espresso flavors.
Mouthcoating, this is a full-bodied wine with small amounts of Merlot and Cabernet Franc. Tar, leather, cedar and black cherry stand out as characteristics, with added weight from the heavier, darker elements of chocolate and oak. Drink now through 2022.
One of three new wines for the producer in this vintage, this one is a blend from the Russian River Valley and Carneros estate ranches, Winside and Lawler. Pleasurable from start to finish, it's rich and brooding in black fruit and a touch of graphite, with a balance of lush earthiness.
A blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 26% Merlot and 4% Petit Verdot, this wine offers a bouquet that is equal parts black plum and green pepper. Fruit holds sway over chalky tannins, with flavors of black cherry and raspberry that are joined by chocolate covered espresso bean and green pepper notes.
More mineral, perhaps even crystalline, in style compared to Thörle's Saulheimer Probstey Silvaner, this elegant bottling showcases pristine grapefruit and tangerine flavors. It's full bodied yet silky, uplifted by a swathe of freshly cut grass and mint that lingers long on the finish.
This extroverted and very yummy wine is dark and deep in color. It smells like it's drenched in blackberry jam and tastes almost as thick. Gobs of boysenberry and blackberry flavors carry hints of chocolate and cherry. It's not too full bodied, just full flavored.
Forest floor and fresh-dug earth form a core around this wine's crisp, clear hit of red cherry. Buoyant acidity keeps it light and bright, with unfettered oak and tannin.
Delicately perfumed with red berry, violet and a whisper of chopped mint, this is a young, elegant expression of Nebbiolo. The bright, linear palate doles out crushed cherry, juicy strawberry, white pepper and cinnamon framed in lively acidity and polished tannins. Enjoy through 2017.
Rose, strawberry and forest floor aromas meld in the glass on this charming expression of Nebbiolo. The bright, savory palate doles out crushed strawberry, black raspberry, clove and star anise alongside silky tannins. Like a little black dress, this would be perfect for any occasion.
Targeted aromas of citrus, apple, grass and minerals precede a lemony laser-sharp palate that sweats the insides of one's cheeks with battery level acidity. Chiseled flavors of lemon and green apple finish long, pure and persistent.
Red fruit aromas are a bit rough and scalped in front of a chunky palate. Charred, burnt, oaky flavors of raspberry and cassis stress ripeness and weight before finishing with buttery oak, a slightly greasy feel and roasted berry flavors. Drink through 2020.
This bold wine has a very dark color and fresh, concentrated blackberry aromas. Generous berry and black pepper flavors seem to saturate the taste buds, leading to a lingering fruit and spice finish. The texture is almost viscous, as lots of fine tannins add grip. It's the rare wine with no added sulfites.
This ripe Malbec offers jammy blueberry aromas that hint at raisin but pull back in the nick of time. A round pulpy palate is home to black cherry, berry and plum flavors supported by loamy earthy notes. A fleshy finish isn't exact but it's friendly. Drink through 2019.
Earthy notes of porcini mushroom and black olive blend with balsamic plum and cherry aromas. This is a touch heavy and syrupy in feel, and thus creamy flavors of chocolate, plum and berry are not surprising. On the finish, this remains creamy and ripe.
Juicy bursts of ripe blackberry and blueberry are reined in by a firm backbone of acidity and cool herbal swathes in this full-bodied Lemberger. Just softly fringed by tannins, it's an approachable but sophisticated wine to enjoy now through 2020.
Bracing and tangy, this light-bodied wine has distinct melon aromas, similar flavors and tasty accents of white pepper and fresh fennel. While nicely reserved it also has complexity and great balance.
Earthy plum and raspberry aromas are subtle. This is tight on the palate, with firm tannins and slightly elevated acidity. Earthy, lightly toasted raspberry and plum flavors finish dry. As a whole, this is well made and exceeds expectations.
This is deliberately picked early to preserve acidity and aging potential. At nine years of age, the result is a wine that's just beginning to mature yet remains youthful, with bright lemon notes and a long, dry finish. If you prefer additional richness, hold until at least 2020.
This Chardonnay brings scents of pear juice, apple and a light whiff of mint. It is smooth on entry with flavors of caramelized pineapple and golden apple. It has good balance and a clean finish.
Subdued aromas of spring wild flower, hay and orchard fruit float from the glass. The vibrant palate offers lemon zest, sage, dried herb and a hint of saline framed in lively acidity.
Subtle and elegant, this opens with a smoky aroma that underscores delicate scents of orchard fruit, citrus and botanical herb. The aromas follow through to the linear palate along with a racy mineral vein. A note of cured meat closes the racy finish.
Fresh and crisply fruity, this is a balanced, lively wine. A touch of caramel adds to the tannic edge, giving the wine a good structure along with ripe strawberry fruits. The wine is ready to drink.
This is a fresh but also full and rich wine with ripe pear and raspberry fruits. The wine is balanced and ready to drink.
This blend of 40% Ribolla Gialla, 30% Chardonnay and 30% Sauvignonasse has aromas of freshly cut grass, lemon grass and white peach. It is clean and bright in the mouth with flavors of peach, apple, pear and apricot.
Apple blossom, lemon butter and white peach aromas show on the nose of this very clean and crisp bottling. There is solid acidity and grippy texture to the palate, where sea salt, caramel apple and more white peach flavors arise. Great sizzle on the finish.
Relatively light in the glass, this blend of nine vineyards from up and down the coast shows savory baked plum, cardamom dust, earthy cranberry, bay leaf and smoked meat on the nose. It's medium bodied on the palate and very down-the-middle flavor-wise, with cranberry, oregano and thyme elements.
Just four barrels were produced of this reserve, which sports a distinctive black label. The fruit is chunky and scented strongly with cinnamon. Even with extended airing, the wine feels diffuse, and the flavors thin out rather quickly. A bit disappointing given the vintage.
Bracingly effervescent bubbles offer aromas of baking soda, chalk and blood orange on this South Coast sparkler made from 82% Chardonnay and 18% Pinot Noir. The foamy palate offers inviting bubblegum and light cotton candy flavors, never sweet but very rounded and approachable in a crowd-pleasing way.
Strong veins of licorice, vanilla and tobacco run through this wine. Light plummy fruit, supporting acids and smooth tannins roll into a finish with more heat than the listed alcohol suggests.
This is a clean and vibrant rosé, with upfront notes of lavender, menthol and bay that frame red cherry and berry tones. The palate is fleshy and fruit-forward, with bold flavors of peach and strawberry that transition seamlessly into the citrus-zest finish.
Zippy lemon and grapefruit flavors are limned with honey and lanolin in this delicately off-dry Riesling. Vivacious and light-footed, it's a uniquely nuanced wine with a lingering slate-edged finish.
This wine initially presents itself as lighter in body than it actually is, a tease from the cool-climate aromas of cucumber, dill and cranberry tea. The oak is toasty with a whiff of smoke, the acidity somewhat subdued. An appealing funk of earth gives it varietal distinction.
Raisin, pastry and plum aromas are smooth and generous given how cool 2013 was in Rioja. There's good acidity and body to go with flavors of plum, blackberry and toasty oak. Finishing notes of coffee, toast and chocolate are fully oaked, which lends a sense of sweetness to this Crianza.
Ripe red apple and peach notes perfume this zippy off-dry Riesling. Light bodied and lemony fresh, it's invigorating on the palate. Finishes moderately long, accented by whispers of saffron and spice. Drink now through 2020.
This offers aromas of yellow stone fruit, chopped herb and a whiff of white almond. The round, juicy palate shows apricot, white peach, candied orange zest and a mineral note. Fresh acidity brightens the ripe flavors.
This wine is just over half Cabernet Sauvignon (55%), with the rest Merlot (20%), Malbec (15%) and Petit Verdot. Aromas of dark cherry meats, plum, herb and spice are followed by elegant fruit flavors backed by a firm grip of lightly dry tannins.
Pear and nectarine flesh are cut by a quince, Gala apple and slightest touches of guava and mango on the chalky nose of this wine. It's refreshingly light on the palate, with sliced pear and squeezed lime notes, bound by a very grippy texture.
The nose is very quiet but the body emanates a generosity despite its lightness. There is red-cherry fruit and a certain ampleness on a slender, fresh body. Tannins are like barely-there linens. The finish is wonderfully clean.
Scents of Spanish broom, chamomile, aromatic herb and white stone fruit combine along with a whiff of hay. The zesty, linear palate offers juicy nectarine, candied lemon drop and a mineral note alongside bright acidity.
Friendly, sunny and fresh fruit notes of yellow pear, Mirabelle plum and red apple shine on nose and palate. This is easy but chock-full of fruit. There is something intangibly smiley about this wine, which has something of spring sunshine and happiness on its slender, fresh body.
The merest hint of oak spice wafts from the nose. The palate has that softly oaked, spiced roundedness that adds cinnamon and a touch of vanilla to gentle but not overtly expressed berry notes. There is some tannic grip, too.
Yellow rose petals and yellow plums unite on the nose. The palate broadens out into generous earthiness that is textured and broad but kept in beautiful focus by utter freshness. The finish lingers.
A touch of earth is bound up with the ripe, juicy and tart pear flavors. This wine is slender and clean with lemon freshness. The concentrated palate focuses on that crisp, ripe lemon note.
The nose hints at the soft, crips yellow pear fruit that abounds on the palate, countered by brisk, clean freshness. This wine has an enlivening palate with a juicy, lip-smacking finish.
The wine is a velvet glove in an iron fist. The smooth surface of ripe fruits and rich blackberry flavors, masks the dense tannins that will allow this very great wine to age for many, many years. The acidity and the rich fruit combine with the fine dusty tannins. The wine will surely not be ready to drink before 2027.
This rich, hearty and ultimately lovely blend of 82% Cabernet Sauvignon, 10% Cabernet Franc and 8% Petit Verdot still needs time to open up. When it does, expect dense and pure aromas of blueberry, black currant, graphite and nose-tickling spice. The palate's intense structure, though shy for now, reveals charred beef, coffee, caramel, black cherry and dried rose flavors. Drink 2019–2030.
Dark-skinned berry, forest floor, pipe tobacco, new leather and balsamic notes float out of the glass. On the elegantly structured palate, taut, polished tannins and vibrant acidity frame ripe red cherry, exotic spice and aromatic herb flavors. A lingering star anise note announces the close. Impeccably balanced and loaded with class, it's still young and needs time to fully develop. Drink 2022–2037.
Richly endowed, the wine is beautifully concentrated. Still young it has considerable potential with its rich fruits and firm tannins. There is a strongly juicy aftertaste that brings in the freshness of the year. The wine will age well, and should not be drunk before 2026.
Lifted notes of dried pear, dried chamomile flowers and dried lemon peel have a strong impact. The palate comes in with lovely generous sweetness that amplifies that chamomile-tisane notion and boosts the dried-fruit notes. Against the distinctly medium-sweet fruitiness stands a clarion line of acidity. The evolution of fruit flavors weaves a colorful tapestry of aromas. This is carefully balanced and quietly intense. It holds immense strength at its core that radiates flavor and fruit. Made from a field blend of Alsace varieties, each adds something: aroma, texture, freshness and body. The finish is endless and very fruity. Have this with cheese or a subtle dessert. Drink now through 2035.
A hint of caramelized apple clings to the nose, as well as a certain creaminess. The palate reveals a core of stone, chalk and lanolin, all framed with the purest notion of lemon zest. This shows lovely flavors of maturity but has only just got going. The freshness is incisive, the complexity and length immense. This is simply beautiful and leaves you totally refreshed. Savor this slowly. Drink now through 2030.
An incredibly pure and piercing note of lemon oil hits the nose. The medium-sweet palate impresses with both fresh and dried notes of fruit: plum, white sultana, white currant and the ripest pear and apple you can imagine. This is full-on and big but balanced by tingling, fresh and precise acidity. A field blend of polar opposites, Riesling and Gewurztraminer, this unites their virtues of aromatic textured richness and poised finesse. Again, this is not a wine that is easily categorized with its medium-sweet, soil- and fruit-driven profile, but it is a joy to experience and savor. The finish lasts and lasts. Drink 2017–2035.
This splendid, resonant, beautifully detailed wine captures everything that is most desirable in the 2014 vintage. Blackberry and black cherry fruit, adorned with a sprinkling of Sumatra coffee beans, rocks on with polished tannins. The pleasing roasted character is just right to power it through a clean, sexy finish. Drink now and on through 2026.
It's a shame more producers don't hold their Pinot Noirs back longer, for this bottling from Joe Davis reveals so much depth compared to current releases. Raspberry, rose petal, cola and cinnamon stick show on the nose, while the palate offers rounded flavors of dried strawberry, thyme and game. It's all intricately woven by time into something wonderful.
Tight tannins mask the ripe fruit in a wine that is set for long-term aging, so there is a dry core that dominates at the moment. But not for long: the bold black fruits are insistent and are going to be delicious. This is a structured wine that will be ready in 2026.
A lovely touch of flint and smoke carry a touch of residual reduction. Underneath that is lemony purity. The palate adds a touch of stone fruit, a touch of ripe mirabelle plum—its generosity only underlined by the taut lemon freshness that pervades the wine. There is something stern and stony at the core, something fundamental and profound. The body is precise, dry and powerful and incredibly moreish. This is lip smacking but has not even started to show itself properly. The finish is clean, stony and lasting. This is one to keep. Drink 2020–2040.
Here's a delicious red that opens with appealing ripe plum, blue flower, tobacco and baking spice aromas. Velvety tannins and fresh acidity provide structure and balance, while while juicy black cherry, raspberry compote and licorice flavors envelope the palate. Drink 2019–2032.
This is a powerfully structured wine from a 18-acre property on the plateau of Pomerol. Rich Merlot dominates and gives the wine both its alcohol and its intense tannins and juicy red fruits. The wine is dense with the potential for aging over a considerable time. Drink from 2025.
There is something heady about this: a hint of chamomile tincture and pure lemon zest. The palate cuts in with uncompromising purity and zestiness—this really wants to showcase pure stone and tart citrus. There are glimpses, however, of plump ripe mirabelle plums and a touch of dried pear and quince. Nonetheless, this is governed by stern tanginess and thus is for real adults only. This is dry, slender and shows absolute focus. A celebration of stone and Riesling. Don't drink this now but wait: Drink 2020–2035.
Seductive and velvety, this concentrated Pinot Noir is richly layered in raspberry cherry cordial, cardamom and cola flavors. Pine and allspice notes contribute a homey spiciness as as the fullness of the wine lingers into a long finish.
The heady scent of Damask rose hints unmistakably to Gewürztraminer. The palate follows lusciously, generously and luxuriantly: wonderfully sweet notions of peach, ripe apricot and yellow mirabelle plum are perfumed with a rose petal scent but are also pervaded by a gentle citrus freshness that lifts everything. The length is astonishing and dreamy. This is dangerously delicious.
After a touch of funky reduction, beautiful hints of herbs appear: yarrow and lemon balm play alongside lemon and crisp green-apple aromas. On the palate, these notions all remain taut along a very linear, slender but concentrated body that owes more to citrus than to apples. There is a powerful enduring core of fruit and stone that will make this last. The flavors echo long and leave the mouth totally clean. Drink now through 2035.
Forest floor, aromatic herb, dark spice and eucalyptus aromas come together with a floral twist. Bright and elegant, the palate shows succulent wild cherry, white pepper, star anise and chopped mint flavors. With its taut, fine-grained tannins and firm acidity, it needs time to unwind and fully develop. Drink 2022–2032.
Forest floor, wild berry, new leather and balsam are some of the aromas you'll find in this bright, linear red. On the palate, firm, polished tannins support ripe red cherry, white pepper, andcrushed mint notes with a hint of black tea. It's still young and tightly wound but already boasts stunning elegance. Drink 2020–2032.
Truffle, leather, forest floor, pipe tobacco and purple flower aromas all come together in this young, balanced Brunello. The palate is taut and chewy, with a nervous tension that offsets its juicy Marasca cherry, raspberry, licorice and clove flavors. Its fresh acidity and polished tannins promise good aging potential. Drink 2020–2032.
Another longtime standout for Williams Selyem, Allen Vineyard fruit imparts textural subtleties and a wealth of minerality and freshness. Citrus-driven in its cranberry and orange flavors, it shows depth and complexity, accented by lively thyme and clove notes.
Smoky clove and rose petal aromas underlie a delicately complex fruitiness in this wine, its cranberry and pomegranate flavors complemented by cardamon, dried herb and savory black tea. Light-bodied and fresh, it offers an indelible silkiness on the palate.
Captivating wild berry, rose, chopped herb and baking spice aromas take center stage in this earthy, stunning wine. The palate mirrors the nose in vibrancy, delivering tight layers of wild cherry, star anise and white pepper notes. Fresh acidity and firm, refined tannins provide a polished framework. It's loaded with finesse and already delicious, but hold for even more complexity. Drink 2020–2032.
Spice from wood aging gives this rich wine its great character. It is supported by the tropical and white fruits. It is developing into a ripe full wine, delicious with its acidity and with its tangy aftertaste. Drink from 2022.
This is a wine with great balance and elegance as well as richness. With layers of fine dusty tannins it has a warm character that is repeated in the perfumed fruit and juicy acidity. The wine is impressive, likely to age well. Drink from 2024.
The wine is rich with layers of wood aging and ripe tropical fruits. Pineapple and peach dominate, cut with some attractive lime acidity. Full of the fruit of the vintage with a texture of serious intent, the wine is tight, tangy and likely to age well. Drink from 2022.
Dark spice, ripe berry, forest floor, Mediterranean brush and new leather aromas lead the nose on this powerfully structured wine. On the full-bodied palate, baking spice, licorice and pipe tobacco notes accent a juicy black cherry core while firm, velvety tannins provide the framework. Drink 2020–2030.
Ripe black-skinned fruit, underbrush, truffle and dark spice aromas come together in this full-bodied red. The palate is firm and seamless, delivering mature black cherry, raspberry compote, licorice and pipe tobacco flavors with both power and finesse. Tightly knit, polished tannins provide structure. Drink 2022–2032.
Utter generosity of both ripe and dried pear is immediately evident on the nose. Notions of sandalwood hover. The dry palate carries that same, generous fluidity at its deep core. There is immense concentration, shimmering with dried, fresh and cooked pear. But there also is a sense of earth, stone and fresh orange peel. The wine seems like a message from another world, , leading you beyond the physical, into a wold of contemplation. The finish lasts and lasts.
The nose is still shy but already tells of tender sweetness. The palate has a rounded earthy smoky element that grounds the luscious generous fruit of dried pear and supersweet Reine Claude and mirabelle plums. The sweetness of this SGN is balanced and almost fresh, but the intriguing thing is a kind of smoky, dark and mysterious core of stone.
A fresh, blossomy perfume persists throughout many of Heron Hill's Rieslings, but this one is comparatively green and herbal in tone. Refreshing and dry, it's marked by lime and sage notes that inlay a zesty finish.
While this wine has plenty of ripe fruit, it also has a smoky character from the wood aging. Red berry fruits give a fresh feel, balanced already with the soft tannins. It's going to develop quickly, so drink from 2016.
The nose on this well-priced wine of mostly Paso Robles fruit is initially hidden, but patience reveals mossy forest-floor notes alongside charred, crushed herbs. The palate also leans more toward savory than ripe fruit, with oregano and thyme most prevalent, although quite restrained altogether.
Aromatically restrained, this dry, refreshing wine highlights minerality over fruit. Fresh lime and lemon flavors brighten the palate, but fade quickly on the finish.
Pressed apple and pear notes are brightened by a kiss of yellow cherries and lemon in this delicate wine. The palate has a pleasant roundness despite its light-bodied frame. The finish is brisk.
Aromas of sour red cherry, white pepper and citrus lead the nose on this blend of 90% Syrah and 10% Merlot. The simple palate offers pink grapefruit and juicy apple alongside bright acidity.
Layers of vanilla, spice and toast persist throughout this richly textured wine. Sunny raspberry and cherry flavors are pleasant, but peek through a bit shyly on the palate. It's an oaky wine, but supple and seductive with a fringe of finely grained, persistent tannins.
Cos d'Estournel's Médoc venture is still not quite in its place. This wine has ripe blackberry fruits, but an earthy character gives it a rough edge. Drink from 2017.
Calling a wine romantic is perhaps a new approach for Bordeaux. The wine itself is ripe and jammy, with wood tannins that will be softer in a year. Drink from 2016.
Chunky, oxidized aromas of melon and white stone fruits settle on heavy and bland. There's acidic snap to this Verdejo but also a rubbery feel to the palate. Yeasty flavors of baked apple and peach finish lightly oxidized and almondy.
This wine from Klipsun and Alder Ridge vineyards—aged in 100% new French oak—offers notes of coffee, herbs, jammy fruit and green wood. Flavors are full, plummy and sugary-sweet backed by firm tannins and sharp-edged acids.
The very lively nose blends milky marzipan, ruby-red grapefruit juice, ripe nectarine and rain on concrete. Given those dynamics, the palate isn't as compelling, presenting apple, pear, orange peel, lemon juice and a vanilla-custard finish.
Aged in a mixture of new French (80%) and American oak, this leads with barrel notes of woodspice followed by herbs, brown stems, blue fruit and cinnamon. It shows good concentration with quite tart acids and dry, chalky tannins.
This wine offers notes of smoke, tire rubber and red currant that show a hint of confection. Flavors are sweet and elegant, with a dry squeeze of tannins.
Fresh and fruity, this has light tannins and a stalky black currant character that will produce a smooth and juicy wine as it ages. Drink from 2017.
Light ruby in color, this offers fresh raspberry and red cherry aromas, slightly softer flavors of ripe plum and a smooth texture. It is medium bodied and easy to enjoy.
The color is deeper and darker than average. Aromas are like superripe plums, while flavors resemble sweet plums and blackberries. It's a generous and smooth wine that's not deep in flavor, but pleasant and easy to enjoy.
This light-bodied blend of 70% Sangiovese, 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Petit Verdot offers flavors of sour cherry and red currant. It's easy drinking but rather lean, with fleeting tannins.
Violet florals and ripe blackberry perfume are alluring on this Merlot-Cabernet blend. The palate is particularly plump with luscious, slightly confected, black-cherry preserve flavor, but tightened on the finish by a ruffle of grippy tannins.
Fruity and herbal in flavor and generous in texture, this is medium to full bodied and quite smooth in mouth feel. It smells like currants, black olives and dried herbs, and tastes a bit savory and complex along with the plummy fruit flavors.
The 15th-century tower of the governor of Monségur gives its name to this wine from the local cooperative. It's a solid wine that has firm tannins along with jammy plum fruits and a ripe character. Blackberries dominate allowing some room, maybe not enough, for the acidity at the end. Drink now.
Big and brawny, this has bold, ripe fruit aromas and flavors that are shaded by thyme and dill, and backed by very firm tannins and good acidity. The mouthfeel is full and astringent, and the mouth-puckering tannins last on the finish. Enjoy it now with pork ribs or flank steak.
Pure Sauvignon Blanc, this is fresh and herbaceous while also having some ripe red apple and quince flavors. The wine is crisp, packed with acidity and delivers a lively, bright aftertaste. Drink now.
Ripe blackberry meets with rustic leather and a bit of rubbery funk on this nose of this wine made by the Riboli family of Los Angeles' San Antonio Winery. It's rich and jammy with tannins adding balance, but not much acidity.
Stalky, grassy, baked-berry aromas are earthy and challenging. This features a classic aged-Rioja palate of raw acidity and raisiny weight, with dried fruit and baked berry flavors backing that up. A baked quality drives the finish as well.
The bright yellow gold color, familiar aromas of buttered toast, and ripe apple and pear flavors add up to a well-made and well-rounded wine. It's a lighter version of a classic, being medium-bodied and soft on the palate.
Layers of smoke, dark toast and nuts lend a distinctly savory feel. This wine is refreshingly brisk on the palate, marked by delicate touches of pressed apple and pear that linger through the finish.
A strong, toasted, smoky aroma and charred oak flavors define this medium-bodied, rich-textured wine. Not exactly light on its feet, but fans of oak will appreciate the bold, toasty, buttery character.
A fairly substantial white wine, it is medium to full in body, with fresh melon aromas and vivid melon and crisp apple flavors. A plush texture gives it some breadth and length on the finish.
Wood takes center stage on this wine. Char, dark roasted coffee, chocolate and vanilla are followed by sweet fruit and oak flavors backed by firm, dry tannins.
This cool site, set on sedimentary and volcanic soils, brings a blend of five clones into focus. Dark and juicy, muscular and complex, it weaves together plum and cherry fruit, a whiff of truffle, and finishes with a touch of coffee from the barrel aging.
With dusty gravel at its mineral core, this Cabernet Sauvignon layers rich red currant, cassis and clove flavors, suggesting French toast drizzled with compote. It has a juicy midpalate and a lingering finish that reverberates toasted, spicy oak.
Char and wood grain are prominent on a smoky nose with blackberry and black-currant aromas. Intense tannins and layered depth make for a full palate, while this tastes ripe and toasty, with blackberry and chocolate flavors. On the finish, mild herbal complexity mixed with latent oak are stirring. Drink through 2026.
This wood-aged rosé is complex and intense. The rich fruit is only one part of the structure of the wine which is perfumed, mineral and, for a rosé, dense. It is surely intended for food with its concentration and ripe aftertaste. The extra year of aging has made it ready to drink.
This is a serious rosé. It has plenty of fruitiness of course, but it also has texture and the potential to age a few months. The wine is rich, full of red-berry fruits and with a touch of minerality. It is fruity now, but will be best from early 2018.
Ripe stone fruit notes, especially aromatic Mirabelle plum, rise from the glass, alongside more evolved chamomile tisane scents. With its slight bottle age, this shows where evolution can lead Grüner Veltliner. The palate retains its zesty, salty savoriness yet is wonderfully concentrated. Juicy Mirabelle reappears on the long, savory finish.
In its singular oval bottle, this is the top cuvée of this prestigious estate close to Saint-Tropez. It is a lively and fruity wine with great acidity and richness. It has spice as well as red-currant and raspberry fruitiness. This is definitely a wine for food, with its edge of structured acidity and bone dry aftertaste. Drink from late 2017.
Toasty, oaky aromas of graphite, pepper, barrel char and black fruits properly announce a palate of chewy tannins and several layers of blackberry, cassis, barrel-spice, toast and chocolate flavors. Chocolaty depth on the finish only adds to the package. Drink through 2030.
York Mountain actually predates Paso Robles as an appellation, so it's great to see Neil Collins making such excellent wine from its nearly forgotten western slopes. This bottling shows stewed blackberry, balsamic fig, licorice spice and purple flower touches on the nose. The well-integrated palate uses sprightly acidity to deliver blackberry and blueberry flavors, with thyme, nettle, dill and graphite accents.
Lovely cinnamon-tinged blueberry and plum notes rise enticingly from the glass. The palate is firm and fresh, cracking with taut, ripe plum and cherry fruit. This is fresh-faced and honest red with just the right amount of grip and structure. The finish is beautifully clean.
Winemaker Nick Elliott taps into the biodynamic vineyard planted by Syrah legend Bob Lindquist to deliver this rich bottling. It's full of roasted black fruit aromasl, with nori, soy and even organ meat touches on the nose. Peppery spice and charred beef flavors accent the lavish palate, while thick tannins frame ripe black-currant flavors on a bed of unwavering acidity.
This is a dense bottling of the Italian grape, with salt-and-pepper touches spicing up the baked raspberry, cranberry and ginger cake aromas on the nose. The palate shows deep flavors reminiscent of dried strawberry, rust, leather and shaved chocolate. Firm tannins provide structure.
There's an exotic edge to the nose of this wine, suggesting juicy, ripe mango and passion fruit. The palate is zesty and fresh and still rings with yeasty savor. It's slender yet concentrated and has a lasting flavor that encompasses yeasty richness and citrus tones. Lip-smackingly refreshing.
Spicy acidity and a refreshing lift of lemon verbena highlight this unoaked wine, framing its medium body and lemon verbena, mandarin orange and grapefruit peel flavors.
This is not your parents' crisp and lean Barbera. Ripe, juicy and concentrated, it's so rich and opulent that it seems sweet. From the aromas through the lingeirng finish, it generously doles out raspberry syrup and blackberry jam notes, as well as a chocolaty accent from oak.
This blend of Merlot, Malbec and Cabernet Sauvignon is succulently smooth yet big boned and slightly smoky. Red cherry and berry fruit provides plushness on the palate, upheld by tight, firm tannins and supportive oak.
This dense, richly thick wine is full of black pepper and leather flavors that complement its bright layers of black currant, plum and dark cherry fruit. Full bodied and balanced, it offers further complexity as it unwinds in the glass.
Finally, this wine has been brought to the U.S. There were only 40 cases imported, so it may be difficult to track down, but it's worth a search. It's light to medium in body, but with an expansive nose of toasted brioche. That note combines with hints of mixed citrus and tart berries on the palate, then comes to a clean, refreshing close.
Made from 80% Syrah, 15% Grenache and 5% Riesling, this magenta-hued wine shows exuberant orange blossom and cherry flavors buoyed by moderate acidity and seaspray-like freshness. It finishes rich and fruity, bringing a creamsicle in summer to mind.
Ripe orchard fruit, pressed Spanish broom, crushed herb and citrus aromas take shape in the glass. On the palate, candied lemon underscores ripe yellow apple and pear flavors, alongside tangy acidity. A savory mineral note graces the finish. Fantastic wine.
Ripe plum, cranberry, pressed violet, tobacco and damp soil aromas lead the nose, along with a whiff of clove. The round, polished palate offers dried black cherry, prune, raspberry jam and licorice notes, alongside smooth tannins. It's already extremely approachable, so drink soon.
This massive heavily oaked blend of 94% Tinta de Toro and 6% Garnacha smells like a cross between café mocha and a sawmill, with baking spices thrown in for good measure. The palate is rough and tannic, while oaky flavors of clove dominate blackberry fruit. On the finish, more clove is apparent, while the tannic clamp is severe. Drink through 2024.
A dried herb kick is the hallmark of wines made by this producer, and this bottling may wear that note best, its fresh-pressed blackberry aromas accented with thyme and oregano. The palate blends those savory tones with light purple fruit and caramel and coffee touches, finishing on peppery spice.
There's a smoky oak tinge to this bottling from actress Challen Cates and winemaker Kevin Law, with black raspberry and sandalwood notes as well. The palate intrigues with salty dark cranberry and penetrating Mediterranean herb flavors.
Consistent with past releases, this estate-grown effort includes Dijon 76 and 95 clonal material, planted in 1995. It's toasty in both nose and taste, with a tight core of green-berry, apple and banana fruit. As it breathes open there's a dollop of cream, just enough to smooth out the finish.
Blackberry and pressed violet aromas lead the nose of this bottling, while charred beef, lava rock and black soil scents provide depth. A roasted game flavor dominates the palate, spiced with black pepper and soy sauce and bolstered by a concentrated base of black fruit.
This remarkably bone-dry wine from a cool-climate vineyard shows black plum, smoked beef, cracked peppercorn and slate scents on the nose. The palate recalls cedar and sandalwood, along with charcoal, pepper and soy-like flavors, framed by chalky and firm tannins.
This fragrant blend of Nero d'Avola and Frappato boasts alluring blue flower, black-skinned berry and leather aromas. The balanced, savory palate doles out ripe black cherry, clove and licorice flavors, with round, polished tannins that give it a smooth texture. Enjoy through 2021.
This wine is half Merlot, with the rest equal parts Cabernet Sauvignon and Malbec. Brooding aromas of black licorice, barrel spice and dark fruit lead to plentiful fruit and barrel flavors that show a lovely sense of balance. The tannins bring some grip.
Close to half Viognier, this is cofermented with Roussanne and Marsanne, then blended with 7% Grenache Blanc. A small portion of the Viognier was fermented in Acacia oak. Deep and rich flavors are packed with sliced pear, then range on through oranges and mixed citrus, adding a touch of vanilla in a fresh tangy lingering finish.
Strong white flower aromas, from honeysuckle to jasmine to tuberose, meet with fresh apple blossoms and tropical elements of banana and coconut on the nose of the bottling, a blend of 60% Marsanne, 38% Roussanne and 2% Grenache Blanc. There's a sharp and sizzling acidity on the palate, where apple flesh and red pear flavors dance across the tongue with gusto.
Toast, oak, coffee, underbrush and baked plum aromas unfold on this extremely ripe, full-bodied wine. The densely concentrated palate delivers blackberry jam, licorice, oak roasted coffee bean, coconut and a vanilla note alongside astringent tannins. Give the tannins another few years to soften then drink sooner rather than later.
Richly layered, the nose offers pan-fried apples, butter, vanilla, cinnamon brioche, fleshy peach and roasted nuts. The palate is action-packed with brown spice, juicy lemons and ripe cherimoya, bound by prominent acidity. Be forewarned that the wine grows overripe hours after opening.
Aromas of vanilla and baking spice are followed by ample red fruit and spice flavors. The acids are tart, giving the wine a zing.
Included in the blend are small portions of Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, but this is Merlot with a dark side all its own. Smoke, rubber and tar highlights augment a wine with black fruits, stiff tannins and threads of licorice and sage. It's not your mama's Merlot, but it's authoritative and interesting.
This wine has a bouquet of raspberry, tart cherry and menthol. A medley of fruit and cooling herb flavors—in particular black cherry, cassis, mint and menthol with a hint of juniper berry—fills the mouth. Tannins are smooth and soft and the bright finish is marked with a touch of menthol.
Saucy berry aromas are accompanied by notes of coffee, olive and forest floor. This has a drawing mouthfeel, while the palate collapses a bit on itself. Flavors of raspberry and cherry offer no small amount of vanilla and oak, while the finish is lively, long and oaky. Drink through 2022.
Charred earth, underbrush, cured meat and toasted hazelnut aromas lift out of the glass. The robust palate is almost overripe, offering dried black cherry, grilled sage, tobacco and a hint of game alongside tightly packed tannins that clench the finish. Drink 2019–2025.
A strong showing from the South Coast, this bottling offers plump red cherries, blackberries, dried plums, cocoa, shaved dark chocolate, kola nut and iron on the nose. The palate is laden with dark chocolate and cinnamon atop elderberry fruit, lifted with elderflower, lilacs and leathery tannins that drive into the finish.
A blend of 85% Cabernet Sauvignon and 15% Petit Verdot, this has aromas of red currant, green bell pepper and clove. The bright palate delivers cassis, cedar and espresso framed in polished tannins.
This Bordeaux-style blend offers reserved aromas of cedar, dried herbs and cranberries, vanilla and woodspice. The dark-fruit and spice flavors are retrained and elegant, possessing a sense of balance.
Made from a blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 15% Alicante, 10% Sangiovese and 5% Cabernet Franc, this opens with aromas of black currant, bell pepper and clove. The palate offers mature black cherry, ginger and a hint of vanilla while firm tannins grip the finish.
Delicately fragrant, this opens with scents of chopped herb, elderflower, hay and citrus. On the crisp palate, a hint of vanilla underscores peach and grapefruit while a light mineral note backs up the finish.
Aromas of honeysuckle, yellow canned peach and wet slate lead to flavors of grapefruit peel, citrus blossom and lemon zest in the mouth. The finish is crisp and zippy.
Blueberries and black cherries meet with rose petals, dark chocolate, brown spice and black tea on the nose of this bottling from a historic vineyard. The mouthfeel is soft with creamy tannins that grow grippier across the sip, showing cedar, black-cherry mousse, baking spice and a tinge of acidity.
Dark-blue fruit, thyme, sweet barrel spices and mineral aromas lead to pitch-black fruit flavors that show the warmth of the vintage but retain their balance. The tannins provide some pucker.
Charred earth, leafy underbrush, prune marinated in spirits and grilled herbs come together in the glass. The warm, evolved palate shows blackberry jam, dried cherry, licorice and the heat of evident alcohol alongside bracing tannins. Give the tannins a few more years to soften then drink sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit.
Quite dark in the glass, this is a lush rather than lithe expression of the shapeshifting grape, with bright boysenberry, black plum, uncrushed peppercorn, soy, roast beef and espresso aromas. Black pepper shows on the palate, but blueberry and blackberry fruits dominate, boosted by a touch of dark chocolate and presented with solid acidic sizzle.
Tar and slightly sour black-fruit aromas show on the nose of this brooding bottling, which also has dried plum-skin qualities. Blackberry and blueberry fruits show powerfully on the palate, alongside dark chocolate and smoked-meat flavors, all tied together with a hickory-wood element.
This accessibly priced wine shows soy, black tea, boysenberry, black pepper, baked plums and lavender notes on the nose. The palate offers lilacs, rose petals and more lavender, alongside olallieberry, pencil lead and a peppery spice.
Grass, gooseberry and grapefruit wind their way around a light-bodied, crisp and ephemeral wine, aged mostly in stainless steel, with a small percentage in neutral French oak. Tiny bits of Sémillon and Sauvignon Musque make their way into the mix, for a wine that's textured and refreshing.
A blend of 60% Prokupac and 40% Cabernet Sauvignon this Serbian wine smells of red cherry and blackberry. It is full bodied, while tasting of black cherry and blackberry. The finish is fruit filled with a touch of leather.
A stalwart, sturdy rendering, this smells like ripe plums and dark spices. It tastes full of fruit but is shaded nicely by slightly smoky, peppery notes. The body is full and the texture firm with tannins and acidity. Best drink this after 2018.
Tight lemon peels and a restrained, almost chalky minerality greet the nose on this single-vineyard expression of Viognier, which also shows Gala apple, a shred of nectarine and a pinch of baking spice. A clean and pithy palate packs lemon custard, tangerine zest and grapefruit flavors.
Softly layered in integrated oak, this 100% varietal wine dances in raspberry, citrus and leather, with a touch of tar. Full bodied, it's a reserve-level wine that may open further in the bottle and glass.
White flowers, dried lavender and vanilla bean scent this wine. Pleasantly acidic on entry, it tastes of lemon curd, pineapple juice and white peaches. The finish is zesty and long lasting.
A big but mild-mannered wine, this has subtle oak and butter aromas plus ripe pear, butterscotch and white-peach flavors. A nicely thick texture carries all the complexity through the finish.
Crisp, flinty minerality shows on the nose of this wine, before a more concentrated experience of baked apple and crème brûlée enriches the palate. Both aspects find harmony in the glass, especially on the long, textured finish.
This well-aged wine has a slightly earthy, new-leather aroma. Tasty, spicy flavors meet up with rich black cherry and cocoa chords to resonate through the finish. It's medium to full bodied, well balanced, moderately tannic and ready for the dinner table. The winemaker kept it in barrels for an unusual 43 months.
Juicy and smoky with a taste of tar, this full-bodied wine is soft and integrated in terms of oak. Black cherry, blackberry and strawberry play on the palate against measured acidity and weight.
Light and appealing, this well-priced Willamette Valley bottling offers hints of rose petals, raspberries and thin cherry fruit. There's a whiff of sweet toast also, and the overall balance is spot on.
This opens with aromas of pressed acacia flowers, ripe stone fruits and dried sage. The palate isn't overly sweet, offering dried apricot, wildflower honey and toasted almond notes.
A blend of 83% Merlot and 17% Cabernet Sauvignon, this robust red is juicy and smoky, offering tastes of blackberry, cassis and mocha. Dusty tannins give a heaviness, accented by black licorice on the finish.
Classic varietal scents of talcum powder and rosewater lead into a tangy, tart, low alcohol but bone-dry wine. The fruit is substantial, offering solid flavors of grapefruit and lemon peel.
Dusty with earth and saffron aromas, this seemingly savory Silvaner is surprisingly plump and fruity on the palate. Ripe yellow plum and cherry flavors are anchored by bracing lime acidity and a moderately long, mineral finish. Drink now.
Racy and revitalizing, this delicate off-dry Riesling balances a core of fresh white peach and citrus flavors with savory smoke and nut tones. Fresh and easy going in style, it's a likely to please a wide audience.
Affordable and appetizing, this has a lighter color and subtle smoke and toasted oak aromas. A firm texture accompanies just enough tannins and acidity, and bright red cherry and black tea flavors. It's lean in a good way, with excellent balance and a touch of austerity rather than overt richness.
This blend of Syrah, Grenache, Mourvèdre and Petite Sirah grapes is so packed with flavors that they seem to stumble over each other at first. It leads with a definitely earthy aroma that fades, but then the flavors come out—effusive, chocolaty, almost sweet and definitely ripe. It is full bodied and rich in texture.
This perfumed, light wine has ripe fruits along with soft acidity and structure. By blending some Merlot with the Malbec, the producer has softened and broadened the tannins and allowed for attractive juicy red fruits at the end,
Briary berry aromas come with notes of mint and oak-based vanilla scents. Earthy berry, prune and licorice flavors finish with rooty spice and mild herbal notes.
This wine is unusually rich, with a color is deeper and more yellow than the norm. Concentrated aromas suggest ripe honeydew melon and fig. The wine also has a plush mouthfeel and lingering finish. Full-bodied and flavorful, it will be happy to take the place of a Chardonnay at your next dinner.
This is a fruit bomb supreme. Bright, effusive strawberry, raspberry and boysenberry aromas and flavors seem to spread out in all directions, first in the aroma, then repeating in the flavors and finish. With a sip or two some deeper black cherry notes emerge, and full body and gripping tannins become more apparent.
Woodsy, cheesy, earthy aromas of berry fruits are a bit hot, jumbled and rooty in style. This is showing a mature, clampy, tannic palate with firm acidity, while earthy flavors of raspberry and plum are lightly baked. This tastes a bit raisiny on the finish. Drink now.
Toasted oak, exotic spice and baked black fruit aromas slowly take shape on this structured Merlot. The densely extracted palate delivers coconut, blackberry extract, espresso, anisette and roasted coffee bean alongside rather astringent tannins.
Mossy, herbal, baked-berry aromas are accented by shades of green tones. On the palate, this is lively but a touch raw, with bold acidity. Blackberry, spiced plum, oak and herbal, grassy flavors finish snappy.
This is the casual sipper of the Château de Nages rosé pair, offering slightly briny, fumé notes on the nose, but following them up with peach and melon fruit flavors that finish long, crisp and dry.
Lush and creamy as soon as it hits the palate, this fine value is packed with flavors of fresh-sliced, just-ripe pear. Hints of apple and tangerine further expand the flavor, and it finishes crisp and clean.
Forward, round and immediately accessible, this brings a generous mix of brambly berry, black cherry and cola to the forefront. There's a touch of dusty spice, hinting at the time spent in 21% new oak.
A blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Merlot and 30% Syrah, this opens with aromas of espresso, toasted oak, ground pepper, ripe black-skinned fruit and game. The extracted palate offers licorice, raisin, clove and tobacco alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish. The fruit is starting to dry up so drink sooner rather than later.
Red currant, blackberry, espresso, wood shavings and cedar aromas unfold in the glass. The palate offers dried black cherry, anise, coffee, coconut and oak alongside alongside drying tannins that leave an astringent finish. The fruit is starting to dry up so drink sooner rather than later.
In this intriguing blend, the herbaceous Sauvignon Blanc dominates the smoother Chardonnay. The wine is all about crispness and freshness with a strongly aromatic component. Acidity and a touch of minerality come through at the end.
Distinct aromas of sizzling bacon wafts from this blend of 75% Syrah and 25% Grenache, along with smashed blackberries and a slightly reductive tar quality. The chunky palate is very meaty and smoky, with dried red cherries, espresso and asphalt elements, proving a bit rustic.
The inviting aromas of campfire smoke dominate the aromas of this wine, but there are also pressed red cherry, berry reduction sauce and roasted venison elements on the nose. The palate picks up morel mushrooms, mulberry, cranberry, smoked meats, ponzu sauce, black pepper and a bit of sour fruit, proving to be a very solid sipper.
A majority of Cabernet Franc combines with 23% Cabernet Sauvignon and 23% Merlot. The result is a dense expression of cherry, strawberry and vanilla, sharp on the tongue in tar and tobacco, the tannins tightly wound.
While this has a strongly tannic structure from the Tannat in the blend, the wine is also showing its ripe fruits and generous texture. Black plum skins and blackberries give a juicy edge to this wine that will be ready to drink from 2016.
Cherry, plum and raspberry aromas cover the red end of the aromatic spectrum. A wide, tannic, grabby body and earthy flavors of raspberry and baked plum finish bold and choppy, with freshening acidity.
Intensely acid in its youth, this bone-dry wine needs a few months. For now, it is tight and steely, very fresh and aromatic, but requires time to open out and broaden. Drink from the end of 2015.
This vivacious white is a beach pour with class. Fresh lemon zest and floral aromas and a combination of white fruit, minerals and citrus on the palate are lively and light, but the wine has some weight behind it.
This blend of 50% Roussanne, 30% Grenache Blanc and 20% Clairette is soft in texture. A welcoming mix of ripe stone fruit and spicy nasturtium blossom finish clean and refreshing.
Savory apple and lemon, earth and bramble tones persist throughout this semisweet Riesling. It's refreshingly crisp and nimble making it an easy everyday pairing for casual chicken or fish dinners at home.
This proprietary blend starts with a very gamy though thoroughly enjoyable nose of charred meat, coffee, berry and compost. On the palate, there is espresso, dried herbs and black cherry, proving to be a complex and savory yet very easy-to-like wine.
Seara d'Ordens is a quinta at the western end of the Douro region. This rich and polished wine is full of black fruits, with herbal overtones and layers of wood aging that have left espresso flavors. With this concentration, the wine needs to age for several years; drink after 2017.
Honey and lemon accent the nose and palate of this stately flagship wine from Sparkling Pointe. Extended lees aging lends remarkable depth and complexity—shades of brioche and almond add a richness on the palate. Revitalizing acidity and a train of tiny bubbles lead to a soft, pillowy foam.
Slightly green, minty aromas of tobacco, spice, purple flower and sawdust filter onto a structured, lively palate. Flavors of dark berry fruits are accented by mint, coffee and chocolate, while the finish hits with controlled heat and herbal berry flavors. Drink this Cabernet Franc-Cabernet Sauvignon-Carmenère blend through 2020.
This is a lightly aromatic wine, with notes of lees, apple, mineral and spice. It's medium bodied, with a thick, textured feel showing good weight and intensity to the fruit flavors alongside well-balanced acidity. A uniquely styled wine without an easy comparison in the region.
From the acclaimed Champoux vineyard, this puts the purple fruit in a wrap of pretty baking spices. Barrel aging adds cocoa and coffee, while the acidity is sufficient to keep the wine from feeling too tannic. Another couple of years of bottle age—or brisk decanting—should put it at its peak.
On the nose, this blend is leathery and earthy. Bold berry and cassis flavors on the palate are amplified by strong notes of baking spice and chocolate, while the finish is oaky and shows moderate complexity. Drink through 2019.
From vines farmed by Neumeyer for the local Hospices de Molsheim charity, this intense wine has a ripe character that is already rounding out its acidity. With minerality from the chalk soil, it's complex and will develop over several years. Drink from 2016.
An elegant, poised wine that's bone dry, nervy and lightly fruity. The wine is balanced between its fresh acidity and ripe fruitiness. With its bright texture, it's a wine that needs food. Drink from 2016.
Medium sweet in character, this is a rich wine that's driven by its rich terroir. The chalk and gravel soil of the Goldert vineyard produces great spiciness that is balanced by delicate acidity and the possibility of aging further. Drink now, but it will be better from 2016.
The wine has a golden character, warm and ripe. Its rich fruits bring out honeydew melon and pineapple as well as crisper orange zest. The structure and the rich texture are already all there, although it will develop well until 2020.
Lean and crisp, this light, ethereal Chardonnay develops in the glass into something more substantial and complex. Herbal and slightly savory, it intrigues and will be a nice companion to fresh green salads in a light vinaigrette.
Like a bouquet made of different types of flowers, this polished wine brings diverse elements into a pleasing whole. There are ripe tropical fruit, vanilla and butter aromas, rich apple and pear flavors, a soothing smooth texture and lingering finish.
A very aromatic wine, showing notes of orange marmalade, brown sugar and apricot. It's supremely rich, with a mango and honey filled finish.
Aromas of cherry and vanilla continue to the palate alongside notes of toffee, smoked meat and roasted red pepper. A well-balanced wine, with flavors that are equal parts fruity and savory, the finish boasts lingering tannins and bright acidity. Fine Terroir Selections, Misa Imports.
Rich and meaty enough to sink your teeth into, this dark and deep Syrah has toasty, smoky aromas. Generous blackberry and boysenberry flavors that are full but not sweet accompany a velvety texture. This is tasty now, but has the layered tannins and acidity for aging. Best now through 2019.
From an estate vineyard high atop Mount Veeder, this 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is dark and inky, concentrated in color and flavor, a brambly intensity at the center of it all. Peppercorns and clove accent its larger smoky, espresso side, the body full and velvety.
A ripe, tannic and herbal wine, this has been produced for aging. It shows a dark tannic side over the juicy black plum fruits and berry flavors. The wood aging shows in the way the wine smoothes out at the end, leaving a rich, full-bodied aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
The grapes are Demeter-certified Biodynamic in this 100% Zin, grown on a ridge-top vineyard overlooking the Dry Creek Valley. A fully realized, satisfying wine, it offers cherry vanilla, tar and toasty bacon among warm tones of complementary spicy cinnamon.
Warmed croissant yeastiness matches up with sea salt and lemon butter on the nose of this bottling from the pioneering Santa Barbara Winery. The salinity carries on the palate, with apple pie and butterscotch presenting a nicely oaked but not overdone palate.
This is a delicious Chardonay. It dances in pear, peach and lemon notes. Balanced and addictive, it's easy to love and not overly complicated at all. Encased in just enough oak to provide texture and weight, this is a great wine for parties or casual dinners, pairable with just about anything.
The wine is rich, medium sweet and intensely aromatic and spicy. A spicily hot character derives from the pepper, bergamot and cardamom flavors. At the back are a firm structure and tropical fruits. Age this wine and don't drink before 2017.
Brown calls this wine its Cab lover's Zin, blending 60% Zinfandel with Cabernet Sauvignon and Petite Sirah. It is a stunner, sultry in juicy red plum, cassis, currant and earthy tobacco. Tannins are soft and leathery, and all the varieties are well represented.
Very rich, this ripe and rounded wine is typical of the powerful 2010 vintage. It's dense and concentrated, packed with black plum and sweet berry fruits. It shows a dense structure along with juicy fruits. It could be over the top, but the acidity and tannins hold it back. Drink from 2018.
A wine that is rich in both tannins and ripe fruit. The 45% Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend gives the concentration of the wine, with spice and black berry fruits that are given an extra richness by the intense dark plums. The wine needs aging, so drink from 2018.
Very concentrated, beautifully ripe and blackberrylike in flavor, this abounds with goodness from the grapes rather than woody flavors from barrels. The sweet-seeming fruit flavors come without a lot of tannin to dry the texture.
This offers the classic Nebbiolo fragrance of blue flower, red rose, woodland berry, tilled earth and whiffs of cake spices. The palate delivers ripe black cherry, crushed raspberry and white pepper framed in big, chewy tannins.
While the wine is all tannin and structure at this stage, the weight and rich fruit promise plenty of good aging potential. Wine producers for 10 generations, the Dulon family picks specific plots. This 60% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon and 5% Cabernet France blend has juicy black fruits that will push forward to give a full wine with a fine presence. Drink from 2017.
There's been no price increase for this outstanding value, but the quality keeps going up and up. It's packed with juicy red berry and cassis fruit—supple, tangy, deep and lingering. The finish carries a suggestion of chalk, more in the sense of minerality than any artificial dryness.
A blend of five different varieties with Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah making up 70% of the mix, it brings intriguing notes of cranberry, raspberry jam and fruit leather. The palate is full bodied with rich dried cherry flavors and firm tannins that need time in the cellar to soften.
Although the wine is dry, it has a wonderfully aromatic, honeyed character. That follows through to the rich, full palate, giving a wine that tastes of dried apricots and quince. Full-bodied, it should be drunk in a year.
A warm wine that shows rich flavors, ripe acidity and plenty of yellow fruits. It is rounded, smooth and likely to develop quickly. The acidity at the end is the crisp contrast to this full, forward wine. Drink from 2015.
Melon and apple fruit flavors are lightly buttery, fresh and spicy. The underlying minerality adds textural interest to this light, elegant and stylish offering.
Heady varietal aromas recall crushed tomato vine, cantaloupe and gooseberries. The vibrant palate delivers juicy pineapple, mango and green melon along with a spicy ginger note, all brightened with refreshing acidity that ends clean and crisp. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
It opens with aromas of sun-ripened berries, spearmint and Mediterranean scrub. The palate offers dark cherry and raspberry accented with notes of white pepper and a hint of cinnamon-spice alongside round tannins. It's ripe, soft and ready to enjoy soon.
It opens with a floral fragrance of peach blossom and white spring flowers. The juicy, vibrant palate delivers ripe golden apple, mineral and almond notes alongside crisp acidity.
This full-bodied wine begins with delicate aromas of toasted bread crust, mature pear and Golden Delicious apple. The palate delivers ripe yellow peach, papaya, lemon zest, white almond and mineral alongside brisk acidity. Drink now for crispness or hold another year or two for more complexity.
Difficult to appreciate now, this Pinot is bone dry, brittle in tannins and acidic. It has quietly complex rosehip tea, sour cherry candy and cola flavors, with a tasteful appliqué of oak. Hold until 2019 and see what it's doing.
Structured and sophisticated, it offers creamy green apple, pear, citrus and white peach sensations. The juicy fruit palate is restrained by subtle notes of white pepper and mineral alongside fresh acidity that leaves a focused, lingering finish.
This rich, wood-aged wine abounds with spice and ripe pear, peach and mango fruits. The dense texture comes from aging on the lees for four months, adding to the richness and spicy character. Drink this wine now, but it will be better in 2015.
Reflecting the structure and fruit of the 2010 vintage, the wine has dry tannins that are balanced by juicy black fruits and fine acidity. Drink from 2017.
A perfumed, wood-aged wine, this is rich, full of fruit and structure, and obviously worth aging. Almost equal parts Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon have produced an aromatic wine packed with black currant fruit and dark tannins. Drink from 2017.
This is so light, it tastes like raspberry foam, with a dash of cola and a dusting of cocoa. This is thoroughly delicious and delicate, but sustaining. A lovely, elegant effort that captures the essence of this light vintage without sacrificing detail, length or flavor.
An elegant Alvarinho from the north of the Vinho Verde region. It has some wood aging, rounding out the acidity of the fruit and introducing a spiced orange and lime character, full-bodied and ripe. It could age until 2015, but is ready to drink.
Woody, smoky notes belie the intensely fruity palate of this medium-sweet Rieslaner. A cross of Riesling and Sylvaner, it carries out the traits of its parents faithfully—aromatic and peachy, yet intensely herbaceous and grassy too. It finishes long, with a streak of sunny, lemon acidity.
Dusty mineral and saffron notes add intensity and spice to superripe, sunny peach and yellow cherry aromas on this semisweet Riesling. It's lavishly fruity on the palate, but layered, with earthy complexity. It finishes long, with a delicately honeyed sweetness that lingers.
Deeply concentrated, with honeyed yellow-peach and tangerine flavors, this is a gorgeously composed wine, with just a hint of sweetness for balance. Notes of cherry blossom and crushed minerals add complexity and depth. It finishes long, with a delicate, lacy sweetness.
Zesty evergreen and herb notes lend freshness to notes of Meyer lemon and nectarine in this delicate Riesling. The palate builds in floral, fruity intensity, with bright peach and blossom notes. Delicately sweet yet brisk in lemony acidity, with a long finish.
This barrel-fermented blend—split equally between the two varieties—displays notes of marzipan, melon, tropical fruit and biscuit. It's medium-plus bodied, with a lingering finish.
Whiffs of earth and musk add a dark complexity to sweet peach and blossom aromas on this superconcentrated spätlese. On the palate, unctuous marmalade is laced with saffron and honey, finishing long and with a streak of tangerine acidity and a murmur of astringency.
This medium-bodied and elegant Pinot Bianco boasts fragrances of white spring flowers, green apple and flint that carry over to the savory palate. The juicy fruit is supported by fresh acidity that leaves a clean crisp finish, making this extremely food friendly. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
This is a tannic while richly fruity wine, showing ripe warm-climate Cabernet Sauvignon flavors. Blackberries and dusty tannins are to the fore, giving a firm structure, fine juiciness and a dense texture. The wine could age, so drink from 2016.
Made in the rich, buttery style, this decadent Chardonnay oozes honey, butterscotch, tropical fruit, vanilla and toast flavors. It also has a much-needed minerality that adds depth and firmness. The grapes come from Carneros, Oakville and St. Helena. Drink through 2016.
This is already a delicious wine with its hints of yellow fruits, soft minerality and creamy texture. There is a touch of toast, warm fruitiness and fresh acidity. It's ready to drink now, but will age until 2020.
Preserved quince and honeyed apple flavors are accented by streaks of mineral and lime zest on this elegant off-dry Riesling. Tart green apple and fresh herb notes lift the midpalate. It finishes long, but crisp and refreshing.
A big wine, tannic and extracted in blackberry, blueberry and red currant flavors, with notes of bacon, mocha, black pepper and sandalwood. It shows plenty of class, but is still too young. Give until 2017 in the cellar.
It's hard to believe there's no oak on this wine, with its accents of vanilla and buttered toast. The wine was fermented in stainless steel and bottled earlywith no barrel exposure. It's beautifully rich in tropical fruit, pear, peach and lime flavors, with a brisk amount of acidity.
Almost instantly identifiable as a Napa Valley Cabernet for its classic black currant and cassis flavors, wrapped into sturdy tannins, and finished with acidity. The fruit is ripe and sweet, with an edge of green olives, yet the finish is thoroughly dry, with a complex spiciness. Drink now through 2020.
Call this Zin lusty, huge, gigantic, massive, anything that describes scale. Some Zins like this are over the top, but this one maintains a precarious balance, despite high alcohol and superripe raisin and dark chocolate flavors. With firm tannins, it's classic Monte Rosso Zinfandel, and will age for decades.
A savory blend of 45% Cabernet Sauvignon, 45% Merlot and 10% Cabernet Franc, this opens with aromas of scorched earth, meat juices, leather, black fruit and spices. The dense, low-acid palate delivers black currants and fleshy black cherry accented with black pepper and mocha alongside soft, round tannins. Drink now through 2017.
A laundry list of a blend, this combines Merlot, Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc and Viognier. Medium in body, it features flavors of cherry, strawberry and flower, plus juicy acids that thrust the wine across the palate.
Lychee and melon aromas are proper for Torrontés. And while this has Viognier and Chardonnay in the blend, it's Torrontés that dominates via a spritzy, citrusy mouthfeel and flavors of lychee, nectarine and citrus fruits. A fresh, lively but simple finish confirms the wine's refreshment potential.
Big, oaky and concentrated, it's rich in coffee and leathery toffee, the tannins firm and feisty.
Funky aromas soon burn off to reveal oak, coffee, espresso and vanilla sensations. The palate also shows a heavy wood influence, displaying oak extract and vanilla alongside plum and black cherry. It finishes on an astringent note of drying tannins.
Dark berry, sous bois and pastry spice aromas lead to a medium- to full-bodied palate that exhibits easy acids and fixed, chalky tannins.
Oak, toast, coffee, espresso, chocolate and vanilla sensations dominate this wine along with notes of black plum. It lacks fruit richness to balance the oak and the astringent wood tannins on the finish.
Subtle aromas of minerals, rose petal and red berry are not overdone. In the mouth, it has astringency, hard tannins and an overall narrow feel. Flavors of raspberry and red plum seem sharp and jagged, while oaky mint and heat rise up on the finish. Give this more bottle time and it may improve.
This is a wine that shows a more serious side to Vinho Verde. Bone dry, with a crisp and creamy texture, it has citrus, pineapple and red apple flavors. It could even age a few months, but is so drinkable now.
Fresh plum and berry aromas are cut from a common mold. This is a good but typical juicy Rioja with clean fruit, crisp acidity and nice cherry and raspberry flavors. A touch of bitterness comes up at the tail end of the finish.
This is a well-constructed, with 95% of the grapes from Napa Valley and the rest supplied from nearby Lake County. Merlot makes up 85% of the wine; the remainder is Cabernet Sauvignon. Hearty, it offers juicy plum and black cherry as well as streaks of cedar and black pepper. The tannins are soft and integrated while the finish hints at mocha and chocolate.
Snappy, dry red-fruit and citrus aromas are a good opening. The palate is fresh and bouncy, with punchy pomegranate and grapefruit flavors. A zesty finish with mild citrus and nectarine flavors is par for the course.
A feral, oaky Pinot Noir from cool-climate vineyards that tastes of just-ripe cherry and raspberry fruit, with a distinct smokiness on the nose.
Lemon, lychee and a slight oily character create a familiar Torrontés bouquet. A plump body is balanced by citrusy acidity, while flavors of tangerine, mango, passion fruit and lychee finish a touch heavy but vertical. Drink right away.
This is a finely made, easy to drink wine. It is soft, round, with spice and light tannins, a wine that would travel to parties, barbecues and pasta bakes. The acidity from the blackberry flavor keeps it fresh and fruity.
Saucy, scratchy aromas suggest road tar and compost. This wine is wide in feel, with peppery, spicy raspberry and plum flavors. A minty, herbal tasting finish is neither overbearing nor oaky.
Sanguine and brawny, it's concentrated in dark plum and blueberry fruit, with an earthy element teasing around the edges. The finish is marked by power and grip.
The nose isn't very expressive but eventually reveals fig and raisin aromas. The simple palate offers raw, red cherry alongside brisk acidity and firm tannins.
Lighter in color, this wine comes from the Miller family that owns Bien Nacido Vineyard. Aromas combine brisk raspberry and fresh strawberry with clove. There is a bitterness on the palate akin to sautéed beet greens, followed by pepper spice and more raspberry, with tannins that may evolve over time.
On first sniff, this shows Viognier's lean side, offering notes of kiwis and lemons. Letting the wine sit in the glass helps to lure out the grape's characteristic scents of exotic flowers, apricots and peaches. A fresh, easygoing selection, this concludes with a clean, medium-length finish.
This is an expansive, fuller-style of Chardonnay from windswept Carneros. Juicy in apple and Meyer lemon, it's softly textured, with a pronounced richness in aroma, evocative of earthy oak and petrol. Mouthfilling and creamy, it finishes with a taste of crème caramel.
This structured, young wine has good acidity along with black currant fruitiness and firm tannins that need time to soften. The aftertaste, with its lift of freshness is already attractive. Drink from 2017.
This brooding Barolo opens with aromas of crushed black fruit, leather and balsamic notes. The palate displays oak extract, espresso, black licorice, toast and coffee alongside extremely astringent wood tannins.
This is a bone dry Vinho Verde, very crisp and tight. It has the freshest sliced apple and lime flavors that are both refreshing and invigorating. From high, cool vineyards, this is a fine wine that would benefit from a few more months in bottle.
This delivers cedary, smoky aromas and tasty plum and berry flavors. There's a good balance between mild tannins, firm acidity and moderately rich fruit character. Nothing over the top, all in proportion.
Mature plum, espresso, coffee and oak aromas emerge on this young and still rather closed Barolo. The palate delivers black cherry, vanilla and cocoa alongside aggressive tannins that leave the mouth feeling parched. Drink after 2020.
On the slopes above the river Garonne, this vineyard has produced a fresh and fruity wine. Firm tannins are balanced by the intensely young and juicy berry fruit. Wood aging rounds the corners of this wine that will be drinkable from 2015.
With some years under its belt, this has become a ripe, full and smooth wine. It shows attractive acidity as well as some firm tannins, but these fit well into the juicy black plum fruits and fresh aftertaste. Drink now.
This wine shows a tropical fruit character, with apricots and mangos laced by more citrus and lime acidity. It's rich, warm and round, although at the back a steely tautness provides balance.
A softly textured, fruity wine that has a feeling of richness. Apricot fruits are balanced by lime crispness. Full and ripe, it's ready to drink.
Aged in neutral oak barrels with malolactic fermentation, this medium yellow-colored wine brings notes of wheat cereal, peach and lees. It's dry and broad in feel with tart acidity, seeming slightly advanced for its age.
This smells a touch stalky and leathery, although there's ample black fruit character to the bouquet. A tannic somewhat rough palate holds stalky flavors of roasted black fruits, charred wood and creosote. A jagged finish with peppery spice and heat closes this out. Drink through 2020.
While bright cherry and berry aromatics take a bit of aeration and coaxing to flourish, this four-square wine calibrates juicy primary red fruit with cool touches of menthol and cranberry acidity. It's approachably fruity and framed in soft delicate tannins. Drink now.
This opens with attractive aromas of pressed rose, woodland berry, dried herb and a whiff of baking spice. The robust palate shows sour, almost unripe cherry, clove, mocha and anisette. The warmth of evident alcohol closes the finish.
The 2012 and 2013 vintages were both strong in southern Australia, so some of the realistically priced Pinots from South Australia and Victoria are worth stocking up on. This is a good example, showing hints of acacia blossoms, red berries, cola and brown sugar wrapped in supple tannins. Drink now through 2018.
Forest floor, woodland berry and spice aromas emerge in the glass. The tight palate offers sour cherry, white pepper, grilled herb and a whiff of tobacco alongside close-grained tannins and racy acidity. An anisette note closes the finish.
Cherry and plum aromas are dry, earthy and direct. This is a straightforward aged Rioja with grabby tannins but enough body and fruit to absorb them. Baked cherry and plum flavors are a touch rustic and stalky, while a roasted aftertaste sends this on its way. Drink through 2019.
Primary aromas of black cherry and cassis come with minerally notes, herbal hints and a drop of iodine. This feels good but narrow, while saucy, lightly herbal berry flavors end with tolerable saltiness. Drink through 2019.
Aromas of scorched earth, underbrush, red berry and a whiff of cellar floor lead the nose. On the firm palate, ground pepper, tobacco and sage accent sour cherry while brooding tannins offer firm support.
Warm and robust, this full-bodied Barolo offers aromas of underbrush, scorched earth, tar and kirsch. The palate is bold and hearty but also shows the heat of the vintage, doling out cherry-marinated-in-spirits, licorice and clove alongside almost scorching alcohol. Drink sooner rather than later.
This fruit-forward, elegant wine offers gentle flavors of strawberry and cherry, with a lightly candied aspect. It's like a cherry lollipop, with a lingering, slightly earthy finish.
A chalky slightly saline minerality extends through this lemony fresh wine, accenting plush fruity flavors of apple, peach and pear. It's silky on the palate and refreshing in composure, ideal for elegant and casual entertaining.
Woody blackberries meet with freshly plucked violets and lilacs on the snappy nose of this wine. The palate shows very tart berry fruit, but is driven more so by the asphalt and peppercorn elements.
This full-bodied wine smells ripe and buttery, like a pear tart, and has similar tasty flavors like ripe apple, vanilla and cream. Though it's not technically sweet, the personality is generous and the texture soft and rich.
Aromas of baked plum, cherry under spirits, oak and coconut lead the nose while the polished palate offers ripe black cherry, vanilla, grilled herb and a hint of licorice. Firm, fine-grained tannins support the savory flavors.
Considerable noble rot both in its aromas and in its palate give this wine richness and a textured, sweet and dry character. Honeyed with bitter marmalade and dried apricot flavors , it is still young. Drink from 2017.
White peach and apple blossoms perfume this dancingly brisk Silvaner. Crisp nectarine and lime penetrate the palate, along with a refreshing sheen of minerality that extends the finish.
Racy and tight, this exuberant Riesling sekt juxtaposes fresh lemon and blossom notes against a piercing backbone of acidity. Tiny, persistent bubbles and delicate foam wrap up briskly on the finish.
The color of oxblood, this meaty, tannic wine pours espresso, black licorice and composted earth around tart blackberry fruit. It's aromatic, spicy and nicely balanced.
This deep-colored, rich-tasting and thick-textured blend does a fine imitation of a more expensive red. Made with a majority of Merlot, its dark cherry and dark chocolate flavors blend well in a texture of fine-grained tannins and firm acidity.
This tight and steely wine is fresh with crisp fruits and a strongly herbaceous character. It offers gooseberry, grapefruit and intense, youthful acidity that needs to calm down. Give this very young wine until the end of 2016.
Aromas that recall stewed prune, cherry steeped in spirits, baking spice, toast and a whiff of menthol lead the nose and carry through to the firm palate along with notes of coffee, grilled sage and clove. Bracing tannins provide the framework. Give this a few more years to unwind then drink up. Best after 2020.
The red juiced Alicante Bouschet has produced a powerful and generous wine that's rich and full of southern sun as well as dark black fruits. It is concentrated and impressive with its ripe flavors. Foot-trodden in open fermenters, it is full and generous needing to age until 2017.
It's difficult to find $20 Pinot Noir this good from anywhere in the world. Floral notes on the nose yield to ripe black-cherry fruit on the palate, which finish finishes with crisp acids and soft, dusty tannins. Drink now–2020.
Bright floralilty greets the nose on this bottling, which shows lime and grapefruit blossom as well as a lighter nectarine flesh. The palate is restrained and grippy, a tart take on the varietal, with lime sorbet, lemon peel and yellow-grapefruit flavors.
Classic Nebbiolo aromas of violet, wild berry and a whiff of baking spice float out of the glass on this attractive red. The elegantly structured palate offers mature wild cherry, cinnamon, white pepper and clove alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2017–2022.
Dark and dense, this opens with aromas of ripe plum, vanilla and exotic spice. The round, chewy palate offers ripe black cherry, blackberry, roasted coffee bean, licorice and clove alongside close-grained tannins.
Nicely textural, this propels its black-cherry fruit into a tasty finish. The wine spent 16 months in French oak, yielding grace notes of coffee grounds, cola and a dash of mocha.
Charcoal aromas shadow standard black fruit scents. This is forward in its approach, with a sturdy mouthfeel. Black plum and blackberry flavors feature a lot of vanilla and cream, while the finish is mild, straightforward and tastes mostly like oak and associated vanilla. Drink now through 2020.
This single-vineyard cuvée brings bold red fruit backed with steely minerality. After 14 months in 50% new French oak, the barrel flavors remain unintrusive, allowing pretty aromas of roses, raspberries, cherries and chocolate to emerge. It's drinking well already, and should continue to shine through 2026.
Alluring aromas of rose, iris, menthol and woodland berry waft out of the glass. The straightforward, polished palate offers ripe cherry, black raspberry, white pepper and star anise alongside fine-grained tannins.
Hints of woodruff and green pear play on the nose and lead to a fresh, crisp, slender palate. This is an easy-drinking, soft but fresh summer wine.
This opens with earthy aromas of brimstone, scorched soil, hay, orchard fruit and dried herb. The palate offers pink grapefruit, white stone fruit, sage and a marked saline note that creates a briny mineral finish.
A subdued nose leads to a fresh but also subdued palate, but if you look for the ripe pear notes you will find them. This wine takes time to wake up and breathe but underneath it's an archetypal fresh but rounded Alsace Pinot Blanc.
Scented impressions of ripe pear and aloe vera pervade this wine. The palate shows texture and more fruit than you might expect from slender Sylvaner. The finish is brisk, clean and taut.
The spare red fruit seems set in stone. The AVA's characteristic sub-flavors of concrete and dry stone are on full display. The wine remains tightly wound, with crisp definition. This should benefit from another couple of years in bottle. It finishes with plenty of acid and chalk.
A 50-50 blend of Nero d'Avola and Frappato, this opens with funky aromas of game, overripe berry and a hint of barnyard. Bursting with rustic charm, the aromas carry over to the earthy palate along with fleshy black cherry, soft raspberry, cake spice and crushed black olive.
This red-fruit-dominated Garnacha smells of earthy cherry and plum along with orange peel. A racy, chewy, slightly rough palate of pie cherry, red plum, raisin and chocolate finish juicy and aggressive.
Raspberry aromas are a touch candied, wiry and suggest a twist of orange peel. Chunky and with hard tannins, this tastes of cherry, cassis and baking spices. It holds firm on the finish, with warmth and a note of brown sugar.
Punchy citrus and minerally aromas open this fresh SB. A juicy, citric palate points in the right direction, while this tastes like tangerine and orange peel mixed with lime and green herbs. A crisp, persistent finish closes it out.
With a slight addition of Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine features brushy black cherry and raspberry around a full-bodied, quite-ripe core that rides the palate softly and succulently. Bright and herbal, it has a mellow finish.
Black cherry and cassis aromas are bold but basic. This feels fiercely tannic and astringent. Meaty flavors of cherry and black plum end with dried berry notes, prune and rock-hard tannic bite. Give this more time if possible, but like many 2013s it might never soften and improve.
Aromas of beeswax, yellow spring flower and botanical herb blend together. The young, vibrant palate offers lemon, lime, green apple and mineral. It's still a very young wine and needs time to come together. Drink 2018 through 2025.
Very light and summery on the nose, this bottling shows aromas of yellow melon, green pear, lime blossoms, lime juice and a touch of chalk. Wet rocks, cut garden herbs and green apple skins emerge on the refreshing palate, which is perfect for sunny days and shellfish.
Ripe aromas of honey, yellow peach, brown pear and a nearly marshmallow character show on the nose of this bottling from the Carmel Valley. It's surprisingly very dry on the palate, where mouth-watering acidity offers plush nectarine and browned apple fruit flavors.
White spring flower, pear and a whiff of exotic fruit lead the way. The floral note carries over to the medium-bodied palate, along with lemon, lime, peach and a note of bitter almond. Fresh acidity brightens the finish.
Tight and fresh aromas of Asian pear, honeysuckle and key lime pie converge on this sparkler from a new estate in Temecula. The palate shows sliced apples, yellow pears, ripe nectarine, rounder white peach and even creamy cherimoya flavors. Though the region is known more for almond-flavored sparklers, they seem to do regular bubbles well.
Vanilla and caramel show right away on the nose of this bottling, followed by stewed blackberry and black plum sauce, proving quite jammy but layered with burnt sugar aromas. Blackberry pie in a vanilla crust is the flavor that pops on the palate, along with black plum and all manner of purple fruit and flower.
Smoke and dark-inflected notes of espresso and cacao are front and center, wrapping into the core of cassis. Hints of prune and coffee liqueur complement chewy tannins, that lend further substance and depth. This punches well above the listed alcohol.
Intensely perfumed, this wine has soft tannins and a smooth, red-fruit-dominated texture. From a 3.5-acre premier-cru vineyard, it is ripe while light in character, suggesting it will age smoothly and quickly. The wine is almost ready now, although it will be best from 2018.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Carmenère, Rara Neagra, Shiraz and Malbec, this Moldovan wine has aromas of sweet cherry juice and vanilla. It has flavors of dried figs, fresh black plum and dried red plums. The finish is persistent with grippy tannins.
Dense, earthy, herbal aromas of berry fruits and black plum feed into a racy, structured palate with high acidity. Spicy, herbal berry and plum flavors taste a bit salty, while this is plenty woody on an herbal, dry, fresh finish.
Straw yellow in color, this widely available wine offers vanilla, lemon curd, honeysuckle and a touch of browned butter on the nose. Once sipped, seared lemon and yellow apple show first, settling into a vanilla cream groove and finishing on a touch of marshmallow.
This is a softly textured, well-made cool-climate-inspired Rhône red, lean and layered in companionable blue fruit, whiffs of violet and white pepper and a touch of gamey meat. Unfiltered and grown on the producer's estate, it flirts with oak without ever entirely giving in to it.
Dark strawberries, rose buds, black plums, sweet cedar, tangy herbs and oodles of dark fruit pour off the nose of this wine, which is leveled by 13% Syrah. Bursting acidity frames the palate alongside red currants, peppercorns, dill and black olive. It's slightly less dense in style than other Mourvèdres.
Bright, moderately complex aromas of stone fruits and minerals precede a firm, lemony palate with familiar, highly fresh tangerine and nectarine flavors. This holds its form and snap on the finish. Drink during 2016.
Initially closed, a few swirls of the glass releases subtle scents suggesting Spanish Broom, linden blossom, flint and a whisper of orange zest. While the palate is less expressive than the nose, it still offers yellow apple, citrus and mineral alongside crisp acidity. It's still very immature and needs additional time to age.
Subtle yellow flower and orchard fruit aromas blend while the linear palate offers pear, citrus zest, a hint of oak and mineral. Fresh acidity gives it a crisp, clean finish.
A bit shy on the nose, this appellation-blend bottling shows light cola, red cherry and wet slate aromas. The palate is tightly wound and very earthy, with turned loam, strong wet clay, oregano, sage, pomegranate and hibiscus elements all playing together nicely.
This offers aromas of scorched earth, underbrush and a whiff of oak. The firm palate offers sour cherry, fleshy strawberry, toast, coconut and espresso alongside assertive, close-grained tannins that leave a mouth-drying finish.
The nose is secretive but the palate shows structure and poise. There is freshness and brisk, tart redcurrant fruit with some concentration, plesantly unexpected grip and lovely firmness. It's a light but impressive Pinot.
This wine defines luxurious texture, at once velvety, richly layered and bright. From one of the warmer sites in a cool climate zone, it complements its fruit concentration with deeper sarsaparilla, vanilla, tea and cardamom scents, the finish delightfully playful in orange peel accents.
Coming from this exceptional winery the term reserve (or in this case, riservata) actually means a great deal. Flavors are broad and deep and entwined with plum, cherry compote, soy and chocolate. The length and power are impressive: these flavors just don't quit.
The heady scent of grapefruit and tangelo peel immediately add savoriness to the crisp green-apple fruit that is evident on the nose. But there are also richer hints of honey and yellow apple. The palate remains taut, slender and linear but that tangelo spice is boosted by enticing herbal notes of yarrow and a dollop of yeast. This is an aromatic marvel. The finish is dry and intense. This will keep your interest for years. Drink now through 2035.
This Cabernet equivalent to Grange has exploded in price (I remember tasting the 1996 on release when it was $25 per bottle), but there's no questioning the quality. A deep, intense nose of cassis, earth, menthol and cedar is followed by a full, rich palate that's supple without being soft. Brighter notes of red fruit emerge on the lengthy finish, which is dominated by sweet fruit and creamy lactones. Drink 2020–2030, and probably well beyond.
A perennial standout, this Syrah is cofermented with 10% Viognier, all fruit sourced from a site on the western edge of Sonoma Mountain in the cool confines of the Petaluma Gap. Beautiful and bold, it imparts a focused line of blackberry and lavender flavors over a lush backdrop of sizzling acidity and smoked meat scents.
The full tilt of ripe peach hits the nose at once, followed by glimpses of marmalade and peach compote. The palate follows with the same aromatic intensity, enriching the peach compote notes even further with lemony barley sugar and fresh caramel, pierced by tangy citrus acidity. The flavors are mature and precise, opulent but tempered, and have a decadent touch. This is lovely now but has the concentration and drive to evolve. Drink now through 2030.
From an organic, dry farmed vineyard, this wine is as feral as the forest—a study in wild boar, wildflowers and dried herbs. Bright acidity buoys that meaty quality in the form of tart rhubarb and strawberry tea flavors. Floral on the nose and palate, it's spicy too, with bold seasonings of clove and pepper.
Certain wines exude a sense of elevated excellence. This one gets to that level via aromas of spice cake, baked plum and tobacco aromas. A stocky saturated palate is structured and built to age, while this tastes of cool blue fruits, herbs, coffee and chocolate. A smoothly textured finish deals cocoa and mocha notes. Drink through 2040.
This is a beautifully perfumed wine. With a high proportion of ripe Cabernet Franc, it is not only structured but has a fine dried fruit character that gives the wine a memorable richness. The wine is tight with its tannins, likely to age over decades. Drink from 2027.
Initial tight acidity in this crisp wine gives way to smooth rich black fruits. This already has a fine balance with its ripe juiciness and delicious red-berry flavors. It is going to develop into a very fine wine. Drink from 2024.
There is something very pure and lifted about this: right now it is so taut that it just says citrus and stone. There is something both ripe and tart, a very lemon-like freshness, with generosity and fruit. There is unusual concentration and for now, while the aromas are still tightly wound, the absolutely stony serious texture is on full display. The purity of this is astonishing and has something authentic and enticing about it. Give this time. Drink 2020–2040.
The wine shows the success of white wines in the 2014 vintage. Initially it has lively acidity and a crisp texture. Then the palate fills out with complex citrus, pineapple and apricot flavors. The aftertaste—juicy and tangy—is already delicious. Drink from 2021.
This is a perfumed ripe wine, packed with generous tannins that still give a style and elegance that is a remove from the older overripe style of Pavie. It is balanced, complex and with great potential. The wood and the tannins are in harmony with the black fruits. With its structure, it will certainly age well. Drink from 2027.
This bottling comes from the best blocks and barrels from this single vineyard, co-owned by a number of Edna Valley luminaries. The result is stunning, with baked raspberry, strawberry, maple, and peppery bacon aromas comprising a spicy, exotic nose. Black plum fruit melds with white pepper and crushed herbs, diving into tangy strawberry and sandalwood incense notes on the finish.
From vines planted in 1912, this has been an icon of South Australia Shiaz since 1952, when it was first bottled as a single-vineyard wine. Menthol and vanilla notes frame black cherries and cassis on the nose, while the palate reveals supple tannins and meaty, savory complexities. The finish is softly dusty, fine and long. Drink now–2030.
This beautiful wine further confirms the high level of quality in the Pinot Noirs from Dan Goldfield and Steve Dutton. It has a profusion of ripe black cherry and currant flavors, backed by firm acidity and fine-grained tannins, giving it grip. Its balance of concentrated fruit flavors and solid structure indicates a long life in the cellar. Best after 2020.
This powerful ripe wine has firm tannins that are so well integrated. With acidity and with rich black fruit, the wine is concentrated and dense. From a small parcel on the slope of Saint-Emilion, it is a wine to age for many years. Drink from 2026.
This is a throwback to those brash, flavor-exuding Aussie wines of the past. Flashy, sweet-scented oak (think maple syrup and toasted coconut) marks the nose, while concentrated cassis and vanilla flavors coat the palate. This is big, but gorgeously so, with velvety-rich tannins and a long, plush finish. No, there's nothing subtle about this blend of 60% Cabernet and 40% Shiraz, but sometimes subtlety is overrated. Drink now–2030.
This rich, opulent wine carries its massive oak load easily, marrying vanilla and toasted coconut notes with ripe plum and black cherry flavors. It's full bodied and plush, with supple tannins supported by the wood. Give it a few years to knit together and drink it 2020–2030.
A lovely heady note of citrus peel and moss hovers above the crisp apple notes of the nose. The bone-dry palate is taut, streaked with absolute lemon freshness and very, very pure. This is linear and totally toned, majoring in the tart and invigorating end of the citrus spectrum. All the more excitement for us. Notions of wet stone pop up and remain on the palate. This is refreshing now but will absolutely reward patience. Drink from 2020 through 2035.
You could get lost in the enticing fragrance of this wine thanks to wild berry, blue flower, baking spice, chopped herb and saddle leather aromas. The smooth, elegantly structured palate is just as inviting, doling out juicy black cherry, raspberry, cinnamon and white pepper flavors. Polished tannins and fresh acidity lend balance and support. An impressive effort from this winery—one of Montalcino's little known gems.
From an estate vineyard planted high atop the Sebastopol Hills near Freestone, this wine impresses from start to finish. It shows unique white pepper and floral aromas, while a seamless texture supports its succulent cranberry and cherry flavors, a long, lingering accent of nutmeg spice rounding out the finish.
The wine is powered both by its tannins and by its great fruit. Dark and dense both in the structure and the black-plum flavors, it is very fine wine– juicy and ripe. This is a serious wine with a great future. Drink from 2026.
The lifted nose seems like an amalgam of chalk and dried apples along with lemon zest. The aromas are reminiscent of evolving Riesling but this is not the only grape in this expressive and highly aromatic field blend. While there is distinct residual sweetness on the palate, this has a counterweight in the rich texture of the midpalate. There is something authentic and deeply comforting and satisfying at the core of this wine that says Alsace. It's impossible to put this wine into a box, it needs to be tasted and enjoyed on its very own terms. The finish is medium sweet, totally soil-driven and very, very long. This is an experience rather than a drink. Drink now through 2035.
There is just a touch of peach amidst the green and yellow apple notes. The palate adds a stony earthy touch, as well as a hint of lanoline, and has an impressive core of fruit that radiates throughout this wine with pure apple flavor and crisp freshness. This strikes a high soprano note of absolute purity. The body is taut and bone-dry, the finish is clean and lasting. Gorgeous now but totally built to last. Drink now through 2035.
From a selection of the original vines at this heritage vineyard, which was planted in the early 1970s, this is densely layered with strawberry, raspberry and cherry fruit. Details are well-integrated, bringing light notes of toasted coconut and caramel. The texture and mouthfeel express the little extras that old vines, when handled properly, can deliver.
From a Westside Road-adjacent vineyard in the heart of the northern Middle Reach, Flax is rocky and the vines a decade old. Expect luxurious power and a velvety mouthfeel from this wine, its black tea, pomegranate and rhubarb flavors brushed with allspice, sage and cola.
Full and plush on the palate, this wine shines in spicy red and black cherry, offering both a juicy core and sculpted texture. Finishing long, it retains a freshness of acidity, fine tannin and seamless oak. A dark, earthy expression of the grape with a twist of spice.
With its 58% Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a wine that is structured while marked with intense black currants. It has firm tannins and just a touch of wood. It is classic upright Bordeaux with its fine acidity and dry tannins. It will need to age, drink from 2024.
Ripe and richly fruity, the wine is full bodied with great acidity as well as firm tannins. It will keep for many years. Bold tannins and a fine tension between the fruit and acidity are all promising for the future. Drink this impressive wine from 2025.
Fresh and fruity, this has light tannins and a stalky black currant character that will produce a smooth and juicy wine as it ages. Drink from 2017.
Light ruby in color, this offers fresh raspberry and red cherry aromas, slightly softer flavors of ripe plum and a smooth texture. It is medium bodied and easy to enjoy.
The color is deeper and darker than average. Aromas are like superripe plums, while flavors resemble sweet plums and blackberries. It's a generous and smooth wine that's not deep in flavor, but pleasant and easy to enjoy.
This offers soft, ripe fruit with acidity, delicious forward tannins and cherry flavors. Bright and fruity, the wine is ready to drink.
Aromas of woodshop, coconut and oak extract lead the nose. The warm palate offers up prune, toasted oak and a confectionary note but no fruit richness. Mouth-puckering tannins and evident alcohol provide the framework.
Aromas of cedar, tobacco and vanilla accent dark-berry scents in front of a palate with edgy tannins and sharp acidity. Blackberry, black cherry, tobacco and vanilla are the key flavors on this good but grating Tempranillo that finishes with oaky flavors of vanilla and tobacco.
Ripe aromas of baked berry fruits and raisin are limited but fine. A plump mouthfeel is pushed by acidic zing, yet overall the palate isn't all that exact in structure. Plum and cassis flavors finish jammy but good.
Dark, rubbery, generic berry aromas are a touch cheesy but full. This feels tannic and roasted, while flavors of cassis and berry come across lightly herbal and baked.
This smoky wine offers some attractive ripe fruits and stalky tannins. It is fresh, showing black currant acidity, a rounded wine that will develop quickly. Drink from 2017.
With 70% Cabernet in the blend, this structured wine still shows signs of its new-wood aging along with eucalyptus flavors. The black currant fruits are developing well alongside the wood, bringing out the concentration and acidity from the old vines. It will be ready to drink from 2016.
This structured wine still has a youthful fruity character, juicy with black currant flavors. The contrast is with the leaner, smoky side that comes from the tannins. It needs to age; drink from 2017.
A series of tannins washes over bright cherry fruits. The wine is all about berries and fresh acidity that are lightly textured. It finishes with acidity and a crisp, fruity aftertaste.
This brooding wine shows notes of tire rubber, herbs, dark chocolate and blue fruit. It's elegant, with mouthwatering acids and grainy tannins.
Tropical, floral aromas are modest but enchanting. Plump and balanced on the palate, this blend tastes a bit yeasty and creamy, with green banana and herbal infusions. A floral finish shows a touch of bitterness.
Big, ripe and fruity, this is an attractive wine for drinking soon. With its black currant fruitiness, smoky tannins and juicy acidity, it's fresh while still rich and dense.
This is an aromatically subdued wine with notes of peach, pineapple and spice. It's medium bodied, elegant in style with a lightly creamy feel, seeming a bit dilute.
Clean peach and melon aromas are basic but nice. The texture on this Godello is a bit oily and grabby but good, while tangerine, nectarine and peach flavors finish with some weight but also enough citric acidity to maintain freshness.
This wine is 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 27% Syrah, 19% Malbec and 14% Carmenère. It shows an unusual mix of cayenne, carob, pencil lead and dried herb aromas. The palate has sweet fruit flavors backed by dry, blocky tannins, falling a bit flat on the finish.
Aromas of toasted oak, espresso and a balsamic note continue to the palate, along with shriveled berry, tobacco and a hint of anisette. Displaying the heat of the vintage, the fruit is already dried up.
This has aromas of leafy forest floor and wet soil. The palate isn't very expressive, offering raw red berry, coffee and a green note of dried sage alongside tightly packed tannins.
Aromas of spirit-soaked plum, menthol and a balsamic note come together in the glass. The warm, monolithic palate pulls together dense black cherry, vanilla, coffee and licorice alongside raspy tannins and the heat of alcohol.
Reflecting the heat of the vintage, aromas recall stewed prune, fig and toasted oak. The hearty but one-dimensional palate delivers dried berry, roasted coffee bean, vanilla and anisette alongside raspy, mouth-puckering tannins. Searing alcohol dominates the finish.
This wine offers notes of herbs, tire rubber and sweet plum. The fruit flavors are sweet and broad backed by grippy tannins, finishing a bit short but still bringing plenty of appeal.
Aromas recall stewed plum, leather, eucalyptus and a hint of cellar floor. The palate is muddled between candied and bitter sensations, offering red berry, anisette, spearmint, astringent powdered sage and a confectionary note. Assertive tannins leave a drying finish.
Aromas of baked plum, grilled herb, espresso and scorched earth lead the nose. The palate displays the heat of the vintage, offering fig, prune, anisette and a coffee note but no fruit richness. Raspy, mouth-puckering tannins provide the framework.
Saucy aromas of molasses, baked beans, tomato and asphalt are gritty. Ditto the palate, which is snappy and hard around the edges. Flavors of leafy, spicy plum and cherry are mildly green and herbal, as is the finish.
A salty, briny, minerally quality is pronounced in this larger-scale wine that opens intensely sour before mellowing into green apple and quince notes. Medium in weight, body and impact, it finishes with a tartness that suggests the need for food.
This stainless study shows crisp and ripe yellow apple flesh, with white rock and slate minerality. Apples, from Golden Delicious to red, also dominate the flavor profile, which is straightforward and accessible, though not complex.
Unusual notes suggest cherry, allspice and hickory smoke. It's full bodied with cherry flavors and firm tannins that lead to a mesquite-filled finish.
A blend of Viognier (81%) and Roussanne, this conveys overripe pear, flowers, quinine and stone fruit. It drinks dry with a broad feel to the lightly spritzy fruit flavors that don't entirely knit together.
Warm butter and light toasted oak scents meld with smoked lemon and walnut hints on the nose of this reserve bottling. The palate is soft and almost sweet upon entry, its cashew and roasted apple flavors buttressed by a grippy tannic texture.
Unabashedly buttery and oaky in aroma and flavor, this first-class, full-bodied wine has a mouth-filling, creamy texture that lingers long into the finish. It starts with buttered toast and almond aromas and opens into a rich pear-and-hazelnut palate, its flavors unfolding in nuanced layers.
Slightly creamy blossom and peach hints mark the nose of this wine. The palate is gently fruited—dry and light with a lovely aromatic aura of honeysuckle, jasmin, peach and lemon. Lithe and bright, it's perfect for a summer night.
A touch of yeast and sage emerges amidst lime peel scents on the nose of this wine. The palate reinforces those flavors, while white pepper and lime notes tingle around the edges. It's lean but concnetrated and finishes with such a clean and refreshing zip that you just want to sip more.
A classic expression of Hawke's Bay Sauvignon Blanc, this is a ripe, open-knit wine tinged with barrel influence. Vanilla and tangerine mingle with hints of smoke, lingering elegantly on the long finish.
Mulberry, wet rock and sagebrush show on the nose of this single vineyard bottling from a site owned by the Hahn family. The palate is tangy at first, revealing dark red fruit with a smoky kick as it opens, backed by hints of juniper and dust.
Dusty mocha scents meet cedar and herb in this dense, full-bodied wine. Spicy acidity keeps it fresh on the palate, with a zing of clove, cinnamon and black pepper.
This wine leads with a touch of smoke and cinnamon. The underlying blueberry fruit is brooding and crunchy, bringing freshness to the medium-bodied palate. Aromatic waves of spice and pure, vibrant fruit carry long into the finish.
Yellow stone fruit, crushed herb and tomato vine aromas leap from the glass. The creamy palate boasts lively elegance, offering ripe peach, juicy grapefruit, chopped mint and stony mineral flavors before finishing on a tangy note.
This wine leads with lovely touch of flint, accentuating its green pear and lemon zest aromas. On the palate, it's light and dry, with a phenolic character that lends both texture and structure, adding complexity to all the freshness.
Nutty and slightly reduced on the nose, this wine shines in tart acidity and fleshy texture. Lemon peel, pineapple and mango notes give it a wealth of fresh fruit flavor, a lilt of lemongrass providing a touch of spice.
Produced with consultant Hubert de Boüard of Château Angélus in Saint-Emilion, this wine is complex, impressive and packed with red and black fruits. It has a fine juicy character as well as a dry core of tannins and wood aging. It could probably do with some more aging and will be better from 2018.
An eclectic range of grapes including Tibouren and Rolle go into this harmonious wine. The Provence cru classé estate has made a rich wine, full with red fruits as well as intense acidity and a tight structure. The wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2018.
This is a beautifully structured ripe wine that is full of dense red fruits and tightly wrought acidity. Crisply textured raspberry flavors dominate. This is a rich wine that can be kept for a few months. Drink at the end of 2017.
The wine comes from a single, high-elevation vineyard owned by Château Lagrézette. Wood aged, it smooths out the naturally creamy Viognier to give a broad generous wine. Spice and apricot fruits are balanced by green-fruit acidity. The opulent wine is just about ready to drink although it will be better from 2018.
This youthful ten-year-old demonstrates the impressive aging potential of well-made Greco di Tufo, opening with compelling dried stone fruit, Spanish broom, herb and smoky aromas. The round, smooth palate doles out creamy peach, mature Bartlett pear and lemon drop flavors. An energizing mineral note lingers on the finish. It's at its peak so drink now.
Produced from vineyards around the chateau Gilles Pedini took over in 2011, this is warm and ripe wine. It balances rich red-berry fruits with acidity to give a crisp edge to a smooth wine. With intense fruitiness and a delicious aftertaste, this is a great food wine, ready to drink now.
Located at the base of the Sainte-Victoire mountain, this vineyard, owned by the Dragon family for four generations, has produced a ripe wine, full-bodied and with concentration. It has raspberry flavors and a touch of spice that gives the wine extra richness. Drink this dense wine from late 2017.
This rich wine comes from the sheltered vineyards close to Mount Sainte-Victoire. The weight of the ripe fruit gives a full-bodied style with both acidity and a spicy, peppery character. This is a wine to hold for a few months and drink from late 2017.
A light and deliciously fruity wine, this is crisp and bone dry. It has great fruitiness with lively acidity and red-fruit flavors. The wine has a zest and lift to it that is irresistible. It comes from an estate owned by the proprietors of Château Talbot in Bordeaux's Saint-Julien. Drink now.
Lightness and ease are the virtues of this refreshing, lovely summer wine. A faintly floral honeysuckle note sets the tone for restraint. The palate delivers the varietal flavors of honey and grape through a prism of lemon zestiness. The finish is dry and long.
A glowingly ripe notion of Golden Delicious apple rises from the glass. The palate adds poise and freshness to that generous fruit, leaving a juicy yet slender sensation of friendly fruitiness. Let this grow on you; the appetizing finish reveals more red apple and supple citrus.
This deep and hearty blend of 35% Petit Verdot, 30% Merlot, 29% Petite Sirah and 6% Syrah shows ripe blueberry, loamy soil, violet and milk chocolate notes on the lavish nose. It's thick on the palate, with ever-present and evenly dispersed tannins that drive caramelized black currant, cocoa and charred coffee flavors into the finish.
Boysenberry, black plum, condensed rose petal and cola touches show on the nose of this clonal selection, which offers very purple-seeming aromas. Ripe black cherry fruit leads the palate, followed by rounded vanilla notes, over a backdrop of thyme, bay leaf and graphite.
Honeysuckle scents provide an inviting aromatic profile in this bold and ripe blend of 76% Sauvignon Blanc and 24% Sémillon, as zippy acidity keeps it fresh in the glass. Its sublimely smooth texture delivers apricot and peach fruitiness.
This 100% varietal wine is spicy and succulent, with a touch of oak reduction on the nose that resolves as it opens. Big boned, it tastes dark cherry- and plum-driven, spiked with cinnamon and black pepper.
A deep sunset-rose color, this has stellar cherry fruit dappled with coriander. Dry, spicy and compelling, it's one of the most powerful rosés you will encounter from Oregon.
Baked raisiny aromas of spice cake are almost overdone. Like many 2009 RDDs, this is huge, tannic and massive as a whole. A woody flavor profile includes earthy jammy berry fruit, while this is heavy with campfire notes on the finish. This is 80% Tempranillo and 20% Cabernet Sauvignon. Drink through 2023.
Beautiful, ripe fruit flavors light up this full-bodied but silky-textured wine. It leaves an almost-sweet impression, as layers of blackberry, raspberry and strawberry coat the palate and linger on the finish. The texture is almost syrupy because the wine is so rich, making it a great pairing for chocolate or aged cheese.
Bright sparks of red currant, black cherry and cassis provide this full-bodied wine with a juicy, rounded personality. Bold tannins frame its dense layers of fruit, complemented by sultry, gamy meat and smoke accents.
This opens with aromas that recall leafy underbrush, grilled porcini and mature dark-skinned fruit. The taut palate offers dried black cherry, coffee, sage and anise alongside tightly wound tannins that give it a firm finish.
Weedy underbrush, leather, mature berry and a whiff of cellar floor open. The full-bodied but somewhat evolved palate shows toast, mocha, grilled mushroom and dried black cherry alongside tightly knit tannins. Give the tannins a few years to unwind but then drink sooner rather than later to catch what fruit richness remains.
Rounded, warmer notes of Gala apple, lemon rinds and flaky pastry show on the nose of this single-vineyard bottling from veteran Chuck Carlson. The palate is clean and complex, with apple bitters, orange rind and wet-stone elements.
Aromas that recall sugared plum, espresso, toast and underbrush lead the way on this robust wine. The densely concentrated palate offers stewed prune, vanilla, mocha, coffee and toasted oak alongside grainy tannins that leave a teeth-coating, tongue-drying finish. It's extremely ripe and you'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on close.
The apple, pear and spice aromas and flavors display freshness. There is no apparent new oak influence, putting the focus on varietal purity. The finish lingers.
This is a soft, ripe wine, with juicy acidity to keep it fresh. Flavors of lemon, tangy spice and baked apples are balanced by the taut texture of this still-young wine. Drink from 2017.
Coming from a single vineyard, this rich wine has concentration as well as ripe yellow and green fruits. It's a wine to age for a few more months to bring out all its complexity. Drink from 2017.
The aromas of lemon, soil and flowers are quite subdued. The flavors are restrained with impressive balance and the variety's often burly tannins well tamed.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon (61%), Merlot (25%) and Cabernet Franc, the aromas of spice, graphite, vanilla, and dried and fresh herbs are all high toned, with the fruit seeming subdued. The flavors are pitch-black, displaying the warmth of the vintage while keeping its heat in check.
Made from 100% Vranec, this wine has aromas of sour cherry, black plum and black pepper. It is full bodied with flavors of tart cherry, blackberry, and leather.
Blue fruit stars in this juicily exuberant wine that shows upfront citrus, red cherry and a spark of campfire-like smoke. Its bristling acidity is balanced in a core of backbone-building tannin that gives it weight and depth.
Luscious black plum and cherry are swirled in vanilla, spice and cedar on the nose of this velvety, brisk Cabernet Sauvignon. It's an elegant wine with a palate that exudes restraint and elegance. A delicate fringe of tannins lingers through a long finish.
Toast, truffle, coconut and oak aromas unfold on this robust wine. The densely concentrated palate shows dried black cherry, bitter chocolate and oak-driven spice alongside austere, teeth-coating tannins that leave an astringent finish. It doesn't have quite enough fruit richness to stand up to the oak sensations.
Barrel spice, violet, tobacco and earth aromas are followed by blue- and purple-fruit flavors, with the tannins showing a surprising amount of softness and suppleness for the variety. It's a mixture of intrigue and delivery, with a finish that glides.
Blackberry jam, cherry blossom and a touch of baking spice show on the nose of this wine from a Westside Paso property. Nicely tight and bright on the palate, it is structured with fine-grained tannins.It offers blueberries, clove spice and a rocky character throughout the sip, especially into the finish.
Kiona Vineyard on Red Mountain provides the fruit for this wine, along with Chandler Reach in the Yakima Valley. Baking spice, clove and anise aromas are followed by light, tart red fruit flavors that trail slightly toward the spice filled finish.
The aromas of red currant, raspberry and cranberry are quite ripe, with cedar notes providing an accent. The palate is high octane with the fruit not quite having the intensity to match.
Very young, this firm, structured wine has dense tannins and a dry core. All of this will open up to bring in the red fruits waiting behind this formidable facade. It needs to age, so drink from 2019.
The nose suggests truffle around compact cherry fruit. The wine is nicely balanced, relatively high in acid, and fashioned for elegance more than power. A finishing whiff of chocolate adds interest.
Seductively tart in lemon pith, cranberry and pomegranate, this refreshing, light-bodied quaff is infinitely enjoyable, both on its own or at the table. It continues to expand on the palate into an increasing array of fresh flavors, finishing in cherry and orange.
Here's an easygoing red that opens with aromas of rose water, wild berry and aromatic herb. Made entirely with Sangiovese, the palate offers ripe dark cherry, raspberry and savory herb, while live acidity and polished tannins provide support.
The blackberry jam, green olive, smoked meat, dried herb, gravel, flower and orange peel aromas provide plenty of interest and intrigue, though a tire rubber note distracts. The black fruit and savory flavors coat the palate with a supple feel that brings depth.
This 100% Ribolla Gialla has aromas of green apple and apple cider. There's nice minerality in the mouth with flavors of apple pie, apple cider and a touch of creaminess. The finish is pleasantly bright.
Aromas of forest floor, new leather, cherries marinated in spirits, crushed violet and menthol open on the nose. On the warm, one-dimensional palate, tightly wound tannins frame ripe black cherry and baking spice. Give the tannins a few years to unwind then drink.
Made with 40% Merlot, 30% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Sangiovese and 5% Petit Verdot, this offers aromas of black cherry, leather and green bell pepper. The firm palate shows mature plum, vanilla and cedar alongside tightly wound tannins.
A nose of cut herbs and just-mown grass backed by notes of white peach barely prepares the taste buds for full-on citrus flavors of lemon, grapefruit and orange peel. It is bright and zesty on the palate, and the finish offers an unexpected but pleasant jolt of eucalyptus.
A tribute to the art of blending, this wine is a mix of 10 different varieties with none making up even a third of the blend. It leads with aromas of plummy blue fruit, smoke, vanilla and herbs followed by plump fruit flavors and lightly grippy tannins.
This blends Dijon clones 76 and 96, and is partially barrel fermented. The spicy nose sharpens the palate with pine needle aromas, and the flavors follow. It's a precise wine, showing pine and mineral more than fruit.
Cocoa and spice notes mix with red currant and plum. The palate is elegant in style and brings a fine sense of balance and appeal to the mouth.
Plum, violet and menthol aromas unfold on this medium-bodied red. The round palate offers black cherry accented with notes of ground pepper and star anise while ripe, close-grained tannins provide the framework. Drink through 2020.
There's been no price increase for this outstanding value, but the quality keeps going up and up. It's packed with juicy red berry and cassis fruit—supple, tangy, deep and lingering. The finish carries a suggestion of chalk, more in the sense of minerality than any artificial dryness.
A blend of five different varieties with Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah making up 70% of the mix, it brings intriguing notes of cranberry, raspberry jam and fruit leather. The palate is full bodied with rich dried cherry flavors and firm tannins that need time in the cellar to soften.
A bit lighter in color than many of Dave Corey's other inky bombs, this offers sweet cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg on the nose, with pipe tobacco emerging into the palate as well. It veers toward cognac, brandy and espresso liqueur once sipped. All ripeness, spice and barrel-age.
Dave Corey co-fermented 83% Grenache with 17% Syrah to produce this rich wine, which offers nose-tingling aromas of blackberry brandy. It's soft once sipped, but also a bit brutal, with blood and barrel-age prominent alongside flavors of blackberry-peppercorn cake. Serve as dessert.
Sonoma's Roessler brothers deliver a great Grenache, with cinnamon spice, rose petals, squeezed strawberries and pie crust on the nose. Bright acidity shines on the palate, with red berries and strawberry spritzer flavors. Good tension between tannins and bitterness leads to a mouthwatering finish.
Made from a mix of vineyards across the Napa Valley, this pays tribute to the early days of grape growing in the region and is a wine equally worthy of recognition. Exhibiting dark cherry stone and wild strawberry aromas, the palate is complex, tannic and round, a subtle suggestion of smoke on the finish balanced by bright acidity.
Sharp anise, violet and menthol scents swirl around a core of rich blackberry jam on this wine, hitting the palate with serious thickness. The Kamal, named after an 8th-century navigation device, also features the other four Bordeaux varietals. It delivers flavors of deep plum jelly, cherry syrup, pepper and cedar.
Inebriating aromas of hearty tobacco, black earth, cassis and prune kick off another barrel-aged monster from Dave Corey. The cherry syrup and plum liqueur flavors remain bright with strong acidity as well as sturdy tannic structure, meaning this one will last until 2020 at least.
Ripe and full in the mouth, this is a yellow fruit and citrus flavored wine. Tangy, salty and textured, it also has a rich feel with its peach and kiwi accents. It's a wine for aging, so drink from 2017.
This soft wine shows a rounded character. It's balanced, with acidity giving a supporting freshness and texture to the full, rich creaminess. Full in the mouth and dense, it could age further. Drink from 2015.
This mature Bordeaux-style blend is earthy on the nose, with tobacco, clay and loamy berry aromas. Despite its age, the palate is still showing red-fruit acidity matched against ripeness and weight. A mix of dried berry, tomato, tobacco, spice and salty flavors finish loamy and smooth. Drink now.
Soft and dusty, this is an herbal, elegant Cabernet from big mountain fruit, the tannins well-managed. It starts out with an intensity of black fruit followed by sturdy structure and a finish of chocolate and coffee.
Rich, ripe yellow cherries and honeysuckle waft from this luxuriously honeyed off-dry Riesling. A sweet tangerine flavor is densely concentrated on the palate, yet the wine is sprightly and zesty in mouthfeel. An elegant floral spray extends the long, lingering finish.
Sourced from a prime site embedded within the cool confines of Green Valley, this is crisp yet rich, intensely creamy and ripe in pear, lemon and caramel. It's refined and balanced in acidity, too. The finish offers a taste of crème brûlée and wet stone.
Bouza ranks as one of Uruguay's top wineries, and this blend of Tannat, Merlot and Tempranillo is rich, smooth and balanced. Aromas of cassis, raisin and leather find their groove with the help of airing, while baked, ripe flavors of cassis and pastry finish well. Drink now.
Rich, spicy and perfumed, this delicious wine is developing well and also has aging potential. It is packed with berry and plum fruits that parade with acidity and tannins that act as a support. It's still dense and the balanced fruit and tannins will allow it to age. Drink from 2018.
Powerfully tannic, this dense and firm wine is dark in both color and fruit flavors. Tannins dominate the structure, giving a solid core to a wine that will certainly age. It has richness, juicy berry fruits and plums shining with acidity. Drink from 2018.
While the wine is very dense, it also has layers of very ripe fruits, plums and dark berries that give it an intensely rich character. The juicy acidity is almost overwhelming, a shock of freshness as it cuts through the concentrated texture. The wine still needs to age, so drink from 2017.
This complex, spicy and fruity wine is big, with attractive acidity. It is piled with berry fruits that give a rich character. The fruits are supported by well-judged wood. This full-bodied wine will develop well; drink from 2017.
Fresh-squeezed blueberry, warm saddle leather and pitch-black chewing tobacco aromas introduce an awesome Cab Franc experience from an unirrigated vineyard planted in 1985. The cedar and even tannin flavors mesh elegantly with the blue and purple fruit.
A bold, rich wine fringed with tannins, at a young age it already shows a solid structure of ripe and juicy berry tones. With well-balanced oak aging, slightly toasty notes show restraint on this dark and complex wine that has potential to age. Drink after 2016.
Tasty and well integrated, this offers fresh fruit flavors married to subtle oak nuances. It's medium bodied and balanced in acidity, which bolsters the ripe fruit flavors, vanilla and baking spice accents.
A new wine by father-son team Tom and Rob Sinton, whose forebears partnered with Louis Martini during Prohibition. This blends in Merlot and Petit Verdot from a handful of vineyards, including Stagecoach and Konrad. It's herbal and peppery, exhibiting dark berry and coffee notes as well as soft, mellowed tannins.
This orange-style wine is dark straw in color and has jasmine and vanilla tones on the nose, while flavors of canned apricots and fresh peaches drive the palate. There's a soft and sensuous finish, due to the 18 month barrels aging.
Aromas of pink grapefruit, grass and coriander seed open the palate of this wine. Passion fruit, apricot, green apple and freshly chopped parsley mark the palate, with a touch of iodine on the finish.
This offers excellent refinement, with high-toned red-berry fruit and sarsaparilla that are on the edge of jammy—in a good way. Noticeable yet balanced acidity and generous tannins provide a solid structure.
Distinctive in aroma and flavor profile, this medium-bodied red smells like cedar, tobacco and black pepper. A blend of Mourvèdre, Montepulciano and Barbera, it boasts an earthy personality that is appealing and unique. Fifteen percent of the proceeds from the sale of this wine are contributed to the Return To Freedom Wild Horse Sanctuary.
This is a wine with nerve, opening with notes of mineral and pine. It tastes true to its Tuscan roots, thanks to a tart red-cherry flavor. Far from being a fruit bomb, it's all about structure and complexity, with medium tannins and enervating acidity.
This is a structured, fairly austere Cabernet fermented in stainless steel and then aged in French oak. Dark and concentrated, the profile ripe in blackberry, cedar, sage and bittersweet chocolate.
Earthy and reminiscent of a rainy forest floor, this coastal Syrah is smoothly textured and round with a grip on the back palate, the fruit juicy and red, high-toned all around. An approachable Syrah with complexity to spare, it fits expertly on the table, duck confit on hand.
Classic notes of lychee and rose petal waft on the nose of this delicate Gewürztraminer. Off dry in style, it's brisk and dancing, offsetting plush, juicy white grapefruit with spice and honey. Finishes briskly on a sugary pastry note.
Heavily oaked and overtly toasty, this mature, barrel-aged Godello from Bierzo is round, creamy and braced by citric acidity. Resiny, oak-based spice, melon and peach flavors are consistent and lasting on the finish. Drink now.
With cedar and tobacco aromas, and vivid black cherry and black currant flavors, this full-bodied red has lots of fruit character and complexity to match its firm tannins and bold texture. A welcome spice component from oak aging starts in the aroma and continues through the finish.
This luminous Nebbiolo from the mountain vineyards of Valtellina opens with a pretty fragrance of rose petal, red berries, baking spice and a whiff of crushed rock. The understated palate delivers ripe wild cherry, cinnamon-spice, licorice and a mineral note alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2017.
Recalling the time when Cahors was on the pilgrim route to Santiago in Spain, this wine is a solid, structured example of Malbec. Textured berry and black currant fruits are still developing alongside the dark, dry tannins. With the tannins and the final acidity, it needs to age. Drink from 2017.
A senior version of Purple, this wood-aged wine is smooth, soft and generous, with attractive mint perfumes along with toast. Big black plum fruits are generous and warm, while still solid with tannins. The wine is drinkable, although it will be better in 2017.
This full-bodied, focused and distinctive wine has a deep, dark color, aromas of black cherry and cocoa, and flavors that are ripe and lingering. It offers power and complexity.
Light as gossamer, this nimble off-dry Riesling enlivens the palate with delicate bursts of lemon and lime accented by blossom and pear. Brisk and clean on the finish, it's best enjoyed for it's youthful refreshment.
Whiffs of saffron and crushed stone lend an earthy tone to the nose, but the palate of this semidry Riesling is all honey and tangerines. Laser-cut acidity lends precision and lift to a moderately long finish. Quaffable and invigorating.
Aromas of ripe, dark-skinned berry and crushed violet emerge from this vibrant blend of 60% Syrah, 20% Merlot and 20% Sangiovese. The  savory palate doles out black cherries and black currants accented with notes of toast and ground pepper. It's already accessible and made to be enjoyed young.
Though a tad funky at first, this wine's nose leans toward tropical but not heavily so. Aromas convey cut lemongrass, lime candy, pineapple guava skins and a lean stone character. It's also grassy on the palate, with tight lemon juice acidity and a nectarine finish.
Fresh and exotic aromas of lychee and orange-blossom water tighten up on the nose, with a more mineral-driven strain of rain on cement. It's restrained and light on the mouth-watering palate, with flavors of squeezed lemons over apples, pears, wet stone and a bit of white pepper.
This soft wine is dominated by tropical fruits as well as fresher pear and apple. It is ripe, brightened by citrus acidity that still needs to integrate. It will be attractive to drink by the end of 2015.
This lightly colored blend of 68% Cinsault, 17% Counoise and 15% Grenache shows slightly funky on the nose, with forest floor and barnyard elements laced between sour cherries and dried morels. The vibrant palate offers florally driven, seemingly tertiary flavors such as beef stew with purple flowers, mushrooms cooked in a lavender sauce and mocha sprinkled over damp herbs
This is lushly fruity, a big bowl full of strawberries, with a milk chocolate coating. There's nothing wimpy here, but the low alcohol keeps it zippy and perfect for warm-weather quaffing.
This blend of Syrah and Grenache provides a well-made, largely neutral canvas to wash down a wide range of foods. Hints of tangerine and peach add nuance and interest to the wet stone elements that dominate, then finish dry and mouthwatering.
Rounded aromas of melon and salty peaches rise to the nose on this wine from the Monterey County appellation just south of the Santa Lucia Highlands. The palate is driven by citrus, grass and a rather extreme sense of sea salt, enhanced with mouth-watering acidity and a nectarine flesh finish. It's tasty though varietally uncommon.
An oxidized style of the grape, this shows dried apricot, marzipan and macadamia nuts on the nose, all cut with a lemon juice freshness. Once sipped, there are roasted nuts, dried peaches, figs and even dates on the palate, with an iodine character through the center and a lively acidity. The exotically honeyed finish is reminiscent of baklava.
Sangiovese and Merlot grapes are behind this ripe red. It opens with aromas of fleshy black cherry, black currant, blue flowers and oak-driven spice that carry over to the palate together with a mocha note. Grippy tannins provide the backbone.
This was the first vintage made at the new winery facility on site. It's a pleasing, lightly ripened wine with flavors of green berry and apple, highlights of pear skin, and an overall approachable, balanced style.
Smoky aromas of campfire and clove are blended with high-toned black-fruit scents draped in additional toasty oak. An energetic palate brings its share of resiny, heavy oak, while dark-berry flavors come with woody, toasty, charred accents that suggest clove and black pepper.
A self-described “irreverent blend” of Pinot Noir (70%) and Syrah (30%), Rubeo manages to capture both the finesse of the former and the power of the latter. Pinot is rarely blended in a still wine, but Lynn Penner-Ash pulls it off in in this selection, showing pretty strawberry and raspberry fruit, dusted with cinnamon, coffee and toast.
Solid but jammy black cherry and blackberry aromas come with hints of forest and rubber. This is flush and easygoing in feel, with a friendly, not demanding mouthfeel. Boysenberry and plum flavors finish round and fleshy, with mild tannins.
From a trio of vineyards in the appellation, including the producer's estate, this wine has an herbal, feral quality around layers of red berry and dark currant. With big shoulders and a velvety texture, it goes down easily and finishes light.
Pollen and dusty mineral notes persist from nose to palate, but are mingled into concentrated layers of orange, honey and quince in this light-footed spätlese. Zesty and spry, it finishes brisk and clean. Drink now.
Bright, fruity aromas and straightforward cherry and strawberry flavors make this a rather light, fresh wine. It has good balance between the almost-sweet fruit and lively acidity, so it stays appetizing on the second and third sips.
Aromatic and quite fruity, this offers flavors of peach, candied lemon and orange marmalade. It's fully dry, but all that fruit gives it a roundness missing from steelier Spanish versions.
Very citrusy aromas of fresh squeezed lemons grow rounder with pear and nectarine flesh, all cut by a white rock minerality, without many of the typical grassy notes. The palate is very tight with lime juice and green apples, and driven by chalky grip and vibrant acidity.
This warm-climate Pinot Noir appeals to those who prefer density on the palate. Cranberry and tart cherry dominate on the nose, followed by richer elements of strawberry tart, earth and milk chocolate.
Bright and fruity, this Sangiovese offers aromas of wild berry, clove and tilled soil. The easy-drinking palate doles out dark cherry, raspberry, white pepper and a hint of crushed mint alongside polished tannins. Enjoy through 2016.
A good effort in a cool vintage, the winery's top cuvée brings tart cranberry and cherry fruit, racy and fresh, along with flavors of stem and herb. The wine spent 11 months in barrel, but shows no significant oak flavors.
Fragrances suggest hay, crushed tomato vine and exotic fruit. The bright but structured palate delivers peach, papaya, cantaloupe and energizing mineral notes alongside fresh acidity. It's nicely balanced with good length,
This is one of Oregon's most unique wines, and one that rises confidently to the level of excellent cru Beaujolais in a ripe year. Bright and spicy with generous flavors of strawberry and blueberry, this sports lip-smacking acidity and a dash of minerality. The sweet young fruit is full, forward and delicious.
This elegant wine is dry, balanced in alcohol and classically proportioned. Full-bodied flavors of blackberries, currants and plums lead to a spicy finish. Rich and complex, it shows heightened structure, courtesy perhaps of its Yountville origin. Drink now–2016.
Bone dry, tart in acidity and seemingly simple, this is the most expensive of Calera's five new Pinot Noirs. It's not showing well now, with tight, mouthwatering cranberry, rosehip tea and tobacco flavors. It feels elegant and silky in the mouth. Give until 2020 in the cellar.
Aged entirely in large casks, this rich wine offers floral aromas with hints of exotic fruit and melon. The creamy palate delivers juicy Golden Delicious apple, pear and pear accented with a graphite note and baking spices alongside vibrant acidity.
A strongly wood-aged wine, full of as much spice and toast as fruit. It will probably soften and round out to give a wine that, while firm, will have rich black currant fruitiness, dusty tannins and fresh acidity at the end. Drink from 2017.
This is like a second wine of Château Lagrézette, bringing out fruit as much as structure. It's full of ripe black fruits, sweet wood flavors and final acidity. A touch of truffle points up a lightly herbal character, adding complexity while not losing sight of the rich nature of the wine.
There is no messing with Reguengos wines. They are big, bold, ripe and juicy. Sometimes they also have a more serious intent. This wine brings out structure, a mineral texture as well as rich red fruits, and the possibility of aging. Drink after 2016.
This balances tart red berry and cherry flavors against a backdrop of warm vanilla and spice tones. It's refreshingly crisp on the palate and finishes long, with a spray of green herbs and fine, lingering tannins. Well balanced and elegant in style.
Recognized for its good value, Saint-Romain is particularly strong on white wines. This wine, from old vines, shows some concentration and rich fruits that are balanced by toast flavors. It is a ripe wine with a strongly refreshing feel at the end.
From grapes grown in the high altitude Castel Ringberg vineyard, Elena Walch delivers a vibrant, balanced wine that shows structure and finesse. It's loaded with sensations of Granny Smith apple, lemon zest, banana peel and an underlying mineral note that carries to the crisp finish.
This structured wine opens with aromas of green apple, pear, clove and a hint of nutmeg that all carry over to the palate along with a mineral note. The creamy texture has nice weight and is brightened by vibrant acidity. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
The wine is undeniably rich, but it wears its richness easily, allowing the fruitiness to show through. With hints of wood aging, spice as well as peach and ripe apricot fruits, it is full of potential. Drink from 2015.
This rich, wood-aged wine fully expresses the ripe fruit that comes from the Alentejo plains. It is dense with concentrated tannins and powerful black fruits. With its licorice, toast and powerful fruitiness, it needs some more aging. Drink from 2017.
A very rounded, wood-aged wine, this is rich and admittedly delicious, although the wood smothers the fruit. It has hints of ripe yellow fruits, a touch of quince and a fine line of citrus to finish it off. Give it until 2015 for the wood to balance out.
The blackberry, black currant, cassis and licorice flavors on this wine are strong, ripe and complex, and a rich coating of oak brings toast and vanilla notes. But the wine, which is a blend based on Cabernet Franc and Merlot, is so tannic that it's hard to appreciate now. Give it until 2019 to come around.
Aromas include white spring flowers, apples and flint with light notes of toasted oak and vanilla. The juicy palate offers Golden Delicous apples and pear alongside an energizing mineral purity and bright acidity.
This new offering is light and elegant, with tart fruit flavors of rhubarb and pomegranate. There's an herbal edge to the wine, all in proportion, with generous acidity that could reward a few more years in the bottle.
Close to Gaillac, this vineyard has a Mediterranean feel to it, making it good for Syrah. The wine is rich, softly textured, aromatic and smooth. Wood aging gives a rich texture that partners the full black fruits. It will age relatively quickly, so drink from 2016.
Big, ripe and fruity, this wine balances its rich fruits with firm tannins. A dry core gives shape to the blackberry fruit flavors, offering aging potential. Drink from 2016.
The top wine from this château is a solid, textured effort. It has a full-bodied feel with very ripe black fruits. With its tarry texture, firm structure and generous fruits, it merits medium-term aging, although it could be drunk now.
The winery's Chards always show the attractive opulence of their warm origin. While this wine is from the difficult 2011 vintage, the wine still manages to wrest plenty of tropical fruit and peach fruit flavors. Oak provides the buttered toast and vanilla, while the acidity is mouthwatering. Drink up.
The tannins are strong and the blackberry, currant and oak flavors have an earthy, herbaceous tug. Instead of flamboyance, it shows precision and control, but those tannins make it too astringent to enjoy now. It will age easily until 2020; 2024 is not a stretch. Another ten years is, but you never know with a wine this dry and balanced.
This wine is starting to show its age, disclosing hints of truffles and earth in addition to savory raspberries and cherries. The texture is silky, with an edge of acidity for balance.
This savory blend of 50% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon and 15% Petit Verdot has aromas of red currants, toast, cedar and baking spices. The juicy palate delivers ripe red cherries, clove and white pepper alongside firm but elegant tannins. Hold another year or two to fully develop. Drink 2015–2020.
This is a ripe and fruity wine, full of red cherries, soft tannins and juicy acidity. It fills the glass with fresh flavors, ripe fruits all ready to drink now.
Still young, it needs until late 2014 to bring out the ripe red berry fruit that will sustain the structure. The wine has weight, a juicy character and a real fruitiness at the end.
Intense aromas recall tropical fruit, crushed tomato vine and Granny Smith apples. The bright, juicy palate offers white peach, apricot, papaya, cantaloupe and almond, along with crisp acidity.
A touch of wood aging brings spice and vanilla to this ripe, citrus and pineapple flavored wine. Very fruity, and with sophistication from the toast flavors, it finishes with almonds and the freshest acidity. Drink from 2015.
Open and fruity, this is a fresh citrus and green fruit flavored wine. It is light and crisp with only a hint of texture, more in the way of enjoyable fruitiness. Drink now.
Ripe red cherry and raspberry penetrate deeply throughout this sunny, yet briskly composed Pinot Noir. It's approachable and uncomplicated in style, but pristine juicy flavors make it quite quaffable. Drink now.
Raspberry flavors are front and center in this young, light wine. It keeps the tart acids in proportion, and the palate is focused and well defined. The finish turns hard and tannic, but further bottle age should soften it up a bit.
Scorched soil, leather, overripe berry and espresso aromas lead the nose. The palate is still primary, offering raw sour cherry, grilled herb, tobacco and licorice alongside tightly packed tannins and nervous acidity. Drink after 2020.
Proudly boasting that there were no added sulphites in the winemaking process, this is a structured wine, firm with tannins that are backed with some juicy berry fruits. It is made to be drunk young although, in fact, it will be better with another six months of bottle aging, so wait until mid- 2016.
A silky texture without much tannin, and vivid fruit flavors combine for a smooth and satisfying wine. It smells like fresh berries and cherries, and tastes on the light side as the fruit nuances mingle. Medium bodied, this is a pleasure to drink now. This blend was made from 49% Zinfandel, 20% Charbono, 20% Carignane and 11% Petite Sirah.
Fresh apples and pears seem dusted in a fine mineral powder in this brisk, semisweet Riesling. It's featherlight in texture, darting and dancing alongside a lemon-lime vein of acidity that pierces through the finish.
Cutting and crisp, this wine is a showcase for the complexities that exist beneath its austere mineral style. On the palate, fresh apple and pear notes are glazed by a crush of wet mineral stones. It's a refreshingly, mouth quenching wine that finishes taut and pristine.
With plenty of solid tannins to keep the structure firm, this is also based around fresh black fruits. The two elements have produced a wine that, as it matures, will become balanced and poised. It's not dense, but presents elegant structure that has enough richness. Drink this wine from 2018.
Apricot aromas are singular and firmly in control of the bouquet of this Galician blend of 70% Albariño, 15% Loureira and 15% Caiño Blanco. This is juicy and fresh, but low on cushion and leesy framework. Apple and pineapple flavors run quick and finish with minerality and zest.
Mature berry, toast, espresso, fennel and a balsamic note lead the nose. The firm palate doles out Morello cherry, raspberry jam, powdered sage and white pepper framed in assertive, fine-grained tannins.
Aromas that recall red berry, chopped herb, baked earth and a whiff of leather lead the way on this polished wine. The linear palate delivers dried cherry, raspberry wild mint and a touch of white pepper that carry through to the firm finish.
Sandalwood, hibiscus and grapeseed aromas converge on the nose of this wine that comes from a vineyard just west of the Sta. Rita Hills. The palate shows barely ripe raspberry fruit, a touch of grassiness and a spicing of anise seed, proving quite light and vibrant even at four years old.
Delicate aromas of crisp green apples, pear and white peach abound on this lean but concentrated Pinot Gris. Dry and spry, the palate is honed on minerality and refreshment. Enjoy now for its vitality and youth.
Impressively dry, medium bodied, very firmly tannic and showing complex fruit flavors, this Zinfandel-based wine needs time to mellow. It smells like fresh raspberries and blackberries, and tastes concentrated and mouthcoating, while the astringent tannins hold everything back just a bit. It contains 34% Syrah and 21% Petite Sirah, and will be best after 2018.
Varietal in its celebration of lychees and roses, this wine also exudes richness and oak, while remaining relatively low in alcohol. From a fantastic site in the heart of the Russian River, it finishes in a tropical flourish.
Soft and round, this ripe wine offers both fruit and acidity. It is young and full of green plum and pear flavors, still textured with a young, crisp character. It needs to fill out for a few years, and will be best from 2017.
Friendly familiar aromas of lees, seashell, lemon, melon and apple set up a shearing pointed palate. Flavors of lemon-lime, green apple and gooseberry are propelled by minerally acidity, while the finish is fresh and well cut.
This Malbec-led blend opens with inky, hard-packed aromas of black fruits and grilled meats. The palate is on the rough and tough side, while flavors of ripe black fruits are intertwined with strong oak and spice. Overall, this is ripe, bold and heavy.
Pressed berries, plum flesh, toasted cherry pits and a charred cedar scent carry the nose of this bottling by a producer in Paso's Adelaida region. It's quite easy going down, with flavors of cracked pepper, blackberry fruit and a vanilla-licorice combo toward the finish.
You'll find aromas of mature black cherry, dark cooking spice, mint, leather and a whiff of espresso on this full-bodied red. The firm palate shows dried black cherry, roasted coffee bean, oak and a licorice note supported by bracing, grainy tannins that leave an astringent finish. Drink after 2020.
Aromas of red berry marinated in spirits, sun baked earth, game and a hint of cured meat come together on this. The tightly wound palate offers raw red berry, grilled sage, mint, clove and anise alongside bracing tannins. Give it a few more years for the tannins to unwind, then drink sooner rather later.
Aromatically spicy, with a blast of citrus, this follows through with tart cranberry fruit. It's accented with pine needles and more of that tangy citrusy acidity.
This bottling is sourced from the Wit' End estate vineyard. The palate boasts broad cherry flavors, showing medium concentration and definiton. It's clean, clear and one-dimensional.
Fairly deep berry aromas register as dark and ripe. Following the nose, this feels chunky and round, while toasty blackberry flavors remain heavy and dark on a full generous finish. Drink through 2018.
This wine has a nose of pineapple and roasted fennel bulb. There is a nice balance of fruit and cool herb flavors, in particular guava, lemon, roasted fennel and a touch of mint. It is slightly waxy in the mouth and cooling herbs remain on the palate until the bright finish.
Initially, this blend of Malbec, Cabernet Sauvignon and Tannat smells murky, leathery and nutty, but with airing it settles and cleans up. Chunky and close to being oversaturated, this full-bodied red tastes of loamy berry and raisin, while the finish is weighty.
Fresh pineapple, peach and blossom notes contrast spicy dashes of saffron, fennel and pollen throughout this Grauburgunder, or Pinot Gris. Cutting lemon-lime notes lend a razor's edge to palate that's supple and rich. It's an elegantly composed wine with a curious, yet intriguing personality.
Dusty crushed mineral and smoke tones extend from start to finish in this sprightly off-dry Riesling. The palate balances savory and sweet well, highlighting its sweet red apple, honey and peach tones. The finish is moderately long.
Vibrant yellow peach, apricot and blossom notes permeate deeply through this light-footed dry Riesling. It's exuberantly primary, yet not at all cloying. Enjoy now for it's youthful vitality.
Honey, toasted almonds and lemon slushie aromas are present on the nose of this Viognier from the El Pomar district. A very smoky element on the palate is a bit overbearing alongside the caramel, vanilla and other oak-driven flavors.
Plush and mouthfilling, this blend of Petit Sirah, Malbec, Cabernet Franc, Syrah and Tinta Cão comes with notes of wild berries, cedar, flowers and spiced cocoa. Dusty, tongue-coating tannins keep the palate grounded.
Like a tropical vacation in a bottle. It smells like kiwi fruit and lime, tastes like ripe green apples, and finishes with that kiwi again. This blend of Sauvignon Blanc, Muscat and Riesling is fresh, smooth, medium bodied, ever so slightly sweet and easy to enjoy.
There's very little oak influence apparent in this wine that offers lean acidity and high-toned layers of citrus fruit. It could be served similarly to a Sauvignon Blanc, ready to be paired with fresh-caught oysters or clams.
This opens with aromas of sour cherry and red raspberry. In the mouth, there are pleasant flavors of tart cherry and red raspberry leading up to an astringent yet balanced finish.
Aromas of lemon blossom and freshly squeezed lemon juice lead to refreshing tropical fruit flavors. The finish is crisp and acidic, and it would make a wonderful pairing with freshly shucked oysters.
The nose on this dense wine opens with aromas of roasted coffee bean and toasted sensations. The concentrated palate offers espresso, chocolate, mature plum and vanilla alongside an infusion of brooding tannins.
Expressive, honeyed white currant, banana purée and peach aromas give this blend of Viognier and Roussanne depth. The palate is smooth, lush and weighty, and it ends with some warmth and flower tones.
Spiced black-fruit aromas come etched with saddle leather and cigar box tones. Almost full in body, this Petite Sirah possess furry mouth-coating tannins and relaxed acids. The finish is earthy, showing a tinge of minerality.
Mocha, cola, dark cherry and berry aromas are mild, but they pick up power on the supple, polished-feeling palate.
The nose on this multigrape blend is gaseous, with forceful berry aromas but little nuance. A tannic, rubbery, rock-hard palate is home to candied black-fruit flavors that are a touch green at the core. Mint and licorice flavors confirm an herbal presence on a brutally tannic finish.
This unique Rioja dessert wine can't be judged against anything but itself. It's rusty in color, with aromas of horsehide, sweaty saddle and exotic fruits. The palate is coarse but staunch, while the flavor profile starts with brine and ends with more familiar caramel and toffee. A sweet, syrupy finish is as challenging as it is flavorful. This is a breed unto its own. Drink now.
Quiet notes of smoked meat, flowers and toast lead on the nose of this blend of 60% Petit Verdot and 40% Syrah. Traces of mint and blackberry fill in the backdrop. This has a lush, alluring mouthfeel, but the midpalate needs a few years to gain weight.
This young Nebbiolo is loaded with ripe red cherry and black raspberry sensations accented with notes of white pepper. It's straightforward, with a round, soft palate and velvety tannins. Not an ager so enjoy this soon.
Quite why Smart Dog is a good name for a wine is a mystery. The wine itself a rich, soft Syrah with attractive ripe blackberry and plum flavors and soft, finely integrated tannins. It's an enjoyable wine that's ready to drink.
Charred turmeric and cumin notes spice up this Bordeaux-style blend's core of dark cherry and mocha aromas. It's robed with tame acids and finessed tannins, finishing with a tangy sanguine-like note.
Darkly hued, it's a mix of tropical-teased cherry and vanilla, with a taste of sweet tannins on the midpalate and a layering of herb on the finish.
From Yountville, this 100% Cab is austere and lean on the nose, still closed somewhat, a waft here and there of herb and green pepper balanced by hearty black fruit and a taste of black tea. Since it's grippy on the palate, decant the wine and let it open awhile before enjoying.
Oak, sweet vanilla, chocolate and plum cake aromas take center stage. The aromas carry on to the palate but there's not enough fruit to stand up to the oak or the astringent wood-driven tannins that leave the mouth feeling dried out.
Strawberry syrup aromas laced with woody scents of cigar box kick off this wine from industry veterans John and Lane Giguiere. There is lots of vibrant acidity on the palate, carried by flavors of pomegranate and cranberry juice.
Char, thyme and blackberry aromas are foremost on the nose. The palate feels dense and well built, with grasping tannins that latch onto the brittle finish.
Velvety and plush, it's 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, aromatic in cedar and cassis. With a winking taste of black walnut liqueur it has a thickness to the midpalate that smoothes out on the finish, intermingling with a taste of vanilla.
With its light color, this is a soft and fruity wine that is now beginning to mature. Its red berries are acquiring a more barnyard character, while acidity is merging into the ripe texture. It's ready to drink.
This 50-50 blend offers a bit of dust on the nose with some eager-to-emerge blueberry. Those blueberries show up stronger on the palate, and there is a definite sense of rich, fresh-turned dirt. It's very much a soil-driven wine.
Dried porcini and herb notes give breadth to the principal blackberry scent. It feels fluid and lithe, with a medium amount of sinewy tannins that lend the palate some traction. It's floral and peppery on the finish.
This stubbornly tight, short, tart wine shows lightly spiced cherry fruit. But after being opened for some hours, the flavors seem to thin out quickly, leaving an impression of a wine that lacks concentration.
This ripe wine opens with a fragrance of mature red and black berry, clove and black pepper. These carry over to the warm palate alongside brooding and tightly-knit tannins. It has a forward character and soft acidity so enjoy this now and over the next few years.
A blend of 44% Petit Verdot, 25% Cabernet Sauvignon, 13% Malbec, 12% Merlot, 6% Cabernet Franc, this is dressed with brown spices, tart cherries, dried rose petals and char aromas. Medium in body, it has polished acids and fine, muscular tannins that latch onto the finish.
Meyer lemon pervades this wine, from the first aroma to the lingering finish. Rich and mouthfilling, there's toffee and butterscotch too. It shows the sweeter, more dessert-assortment side of Chardonnay, along with plenty of zesty apple and pear fruit.
Quite pale, it offers fresh scents of limeade and honey on the nose, yet it is surprisingly viscous on the palate, where more honey teams with guava. A tiny bit of chalkiness stops it from being cloying. Pair with pan-fried trout or poached salmon.
Fresh and packed with red fruits, this wine comes from the Faiveley domaine. With raspberry flavors and plenty of acidity, the wine is forward and going to develop quickly. Drink from 2018.
With attractive wood flavors, this is a wine with spice, toast and citrus flavors. Orange and yellow fruits come through the lime acidity and zesty texture. Drink from 2017.
La Casita is all clone 114 and 50% whole-cluster fermented. In a year with many wines showing minimal ripeness, this breaks the mold. The forward strawberry fruit hints at sugary sweetness. Flavors are fresh and appealing, front-loaded and best for near-term consumption.
Enticing aromas of freshly cut Cox Orange Pippin apples reach every corner of this easy, fruity wine. The palate is crisp yet full flavored, light-bodied and dry. The finish is lasting and superclean.
Full-fruited, expressive notes of ripe pear shine on nose and palate. This wine has lively, attractive fruit notes and bags of freshness and flavor. The palate is clean but has a soft, fresh richness at its core that makes it very moreish. Lemon notes linger beautifully.
A soft perfume of red and yellow apples appears first. These rounded but fresh flavors persist on the palate that is given poise by brisk, clean citrus freshness. The apple notes linger pleasantly on this light but satisfying wine.
Tart and tightly wound fruit flavors range from watermelon to strawberry, with a heavy infusion of citrus. It's sharply acidic, with some suggestions of toast from light barrel aging. A streak of cola runs through the finish.
There's nothing shy about this red, which is robust, earthy and forcefully tannic. It's a rough-and-tumble red with hearty black cherry, charred wood and truffled chocolate. Big flavors, and big tannins are ready for a big cut of beef.
Bounteous fruit flavors need a little air to wake up but soon you'll have a party in your glass of ripe yellow plums, freshly cut apples, pears and melons. This is easy and very fruit-driven, balanced, light and just the ticket for a party in the sunshine.
Ripe notes of juicy yellow-pear waft from the glass The palate is equally full-fruited but comes with a dry, crisp and refreshing palate and a clean finish.
Mild, controlled aromas of peach, apple and woodspice set up a cutting palate with noticeable minerality. Flavors of white pepper, apple and lime are slightly briny, while the finish feels fresh as a whistle but shy on flavors.
Strong oaky aromas like smoke and maple syrup are backed by ripe blackberry and pomegranate flavors in this full-bodied, moderately tannic wine. The richness of texture and full, spicy flavors make a good, satisfying combination.
Peppery, grapey flavors, full body and a rich fine-grained texture make this wine distinctive to taste and soothing to drink. It's a very good example of a GSM, capturing the fullness and generosity of this type of blend made from Grenache, Syrah and Mourvèdre grapes.
Made with 50% Nero d'Avola and 50% Syrah, this presents aromas of dark berry, allspice and Mediterranean herb. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, black pepper and clove alongside fine-grained tannins.
This winery has specialized in Cabernet Franc for 20 years, and seems to have kicked up the concentration in recent vintages. This potent wine was tight and tannic when first opened, but developed nicely over 24 hours. It has a smoky, peppery element in the aroma that segues to dark berry flavors. It will improve through at least 2019.
Aromas of ripe orchard fruit, Mediterranean herb and toasted hazelnut lead the nose while the bright palate offers green pear, peach, unripe apricot and bitter almond. A mineral note signals the close.
While a touch weightier in mouthfeel, Schloss Vollrad's standard-label bottling, this boasts the same peach and pink-grapefruit intensity that's so appealing on the Kabinett. Edged by a lacy fray of sugar, it's lip-smackingly sweet, but irresistably quaffable and neatly balanced by a streak of tangerine acidity. Drink now through 2020.
This full-bodied red opens with aromas of ripe plum, vanilla and a hint of charred topsoil. The warm, chewy palate has flavors of ripe black cherry, licorice, baking spice and coffee bean while a note of bitter almond signals the finish. Drink through 2020.
Orchard fruit, nut and acacia flower aromas meld together on this elegant white. The firm palate offers green pear, lemon zest and mineral alongside zesty acidity. A note of almond closes the tangy finish.
Juicy and round, this opens with scents of honeysuckle, yellow stone fruit and a hint of aromatic herb. The full-bodied palate offers ripe white peach, pear and a hint of candied lemon drop while a mineral note backs up the finish.
Bold and nicely astringent, this wine is full bodied, rich in flavor and even richer in texture due to a thick layer of fine tannins. Built almost like a Cabernet but with brighter fruit flavors, the wine is attractively dry and meant to be enjoyed with something rich like a roast or steak.
Aromas of blue flower, black-skinned fruit and a whiff of Mediterranean scrub meld in the glass. The chewy, straightforward palate doles out juicy black cherry and ground pepper. It's made to drink young so enjoy soon.
This wine is made from a duet of vineyards otherwise single-bottle designated: Cloud's Nest on Mount Veeder and Haystack from Atlas Peak. Smooth, rounded and rich in blackberry and raspberry, with a touch of currant, it has a woody, lasting taste of tannin.
Aromas of mango, pineapple and petrol are pure Riesling. Plump on the palate, with citrusy acidity, this tastes of green melon, lime and tarragon. On the finish, a simple, sweet melony flavor blends into a sharper grapefruit note.
This wine, which comes from thin, granitic soils, is lean, taut and dry. Hints of lime blossom and green apple on the nose and palate give it a springtime feel, while the finish is crisp and refreshing.
Wild flower, toasted hazelnut, pear and aromatic herb aromas come together in the glass and follow through to the linear palate along with a dollop of honey. A light mineral note energizes the finish.
This winery's site studies show off a nuanced side of Zin, in this case offering dried mint, sagebrush, crushed bricks and a red and purple-fruit character on the nose. Juicy olallieberry fruit emerges once sipped, but an oregano herbaceousness cuts that diligently.
Aromas of vanilla and coconut share space on the nose with ripe notes of blackberry and prune. This feels just fresh enough, with ample body. Ripe berry, raisin and chocolate flavors end a touch flat.
Heavy prune and raisin aromas are perfumed and rich, but arguably a bit overripe. Matching the nose, this feels thick, saturated and grapy. Flavors of black plum and blueberry finish chunky, with muscularity but also a rubbery flavor note.
This handsome, full-bodied wine has aromas of dark cherry and toasted oak, flavors like ripe plums and vanilla and a velvety mouthfeel due to good acidity and fine-grained tannins.
Apple, lemon oil and vinosity unite to such a degree that the nose is completely heady: here is a Riesling at the very cusp of maturity, a trajectory that has only just begun. The dry palate also reveals hints of lanolin and peach but is utterly governed by lemon freshness. This is sleek and taut, and gives you a glimpse of what mature dry Riesling can be: incisive, complex but eternally fresh. The finish is utterly clean. Drink now through 2030.
A subtle nose hints softly at lemon and crisp green apple. The palate comes in with absolutely pure streaks of lemon and stone. This is taut and uncompromising and speaks authentically of stone and citrus fruit with a promise of riper apple in the future. This needs time to come into its own and has all the concentration and juiciness it needs for cellar age. This is dry and will drink well 2020–2035.
The defining characteristic of Carter seems to be a taste of steel or gun metal running through the spine. It's here again, with compact fruit and drying tannins. That fruit has a dark core, and it's polished and textural, with lightly herbal highlights. This is a wine to track in the cellar over the next decade or longer.
A lovely purity of lemon oil and zest pervades both nose and palate of this straight-laced wine. There is purity and freshness, precision and tons of zesty tangy lemon. This finds its counterpoint in a lovely texture of stone and chalk. Later, ripe apple notes make an aromatic experience and stay on the dry palate all the way through the long lemony finish. Drink now through 2030.
A herbal touch of crushed lemon balm and apple peel makes for an intriguing, inviting nose. The palate adds fresh apple notes to these subtle herb notes and remains totally juicy and lively. This seems far fresher than its six years and the herbal tinges are just the beginning of maturity. This is lovely, concentrated and spirited stuff with a whistle-clean utterly dry finish. Testaments to Riesling's longevity.
Made entirely from Sangiovese, this opens with intense violet, red berry, Mediterranean herb and tilled soil aromas. The palate is polished and layered in crushed raspberry, juicy black cherry, pipe tobacco, mint and white pepper flavors. Velvety tannins provide structure. Enjoy through 2022.
Plump strawberry and black cherry fruit provide power, but elegance is what carries this bottling, thanks to its well-integrated rose and hibiscus aromas. Cooked raspberry and ripe pomegranate notes make for a rich palate, but floral rosewater touches complete the picture. This packs punch while still being approachable in style.
This best-of-barrels bottling is intended to impress with its weight and gravitas, and it succeeds despite exhibiting more restraint than in previous vintages. Plush red strawberry and plum fruit is spiced with star anise and clove on the nose. The palate combines a sanguine element with smoky oak notes. Vanilla bean and ginger snap flavors extend toward the finish, which proves rather refreshing.
This is a soft, complex and floral wine, sourced from an estate vineyard on Westside Road. Black cherry, tangerine and oak reduction make for a bright, brooding combination of medium-bodied lushness and subtle power.
An opaque color is a fair warning of what's to come: namely rubbery minerally black-fruit aromas that scream old vines. In the mouth, this blocky Carignan is flush and shows wall-to-wall saturation. Wild aromas of mountain herbs, blueberry and boysenberry finish sinewy and with spicy minerally black-fruit leftovers. Drink through 2023.
There's a great deal of sagebrush on the nose of this bottling from a vineyard in the eastern Sta. Rita Hills, along with red cherry, pencil lead and sandalwood. Dark cherry and cranberry flavors power the palate, the fruit wrapped in hickory smoke. Thyme flavors carry into the tannic finish.
A rich, voluptuous nose gives way to crisp layers of lemon, pineapple and quince flavors in this barrel-kissed and full-bodied white. The ripeness of the fruit is brightened by stony minerality, allowing for a floral bite of apple blossom.
Marking the winery's 40th harvest, this vintage offers classic Sangiovese fragrance: wild berry, blue flower, baking spice and a whiff of new leather. The palate is sleek and elegant, doling out juicy red cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon and star anise, framed by lithe, polished tannins and fresh acidity. It's loaded with finesse and tempting now but will be even better with a few more years in bottle. Drink 2019–2026.
Planted in 2006 to heirloom clones, most of them Pommard, this is a concentrated, tannic wine that needs time in bottle to develop. For now, expect rose and raspberry, with a depth of black cherry compote—flavors that are immediately inviting and richly layered. Yet, it will tell more of its story down the road. Allow it to open now or cellar through 2029.
It is the tart-ripe contrast of tangerine and ripe lemon that makes both nose and palate so enticing. The purity of flavors and this appealing contrast carry right through on the taut, bright, linear and dry palate. Its texture seems stony and profound. What stays and charms is the purity of that Amalfi lemon finish. This is so beautiful and very, very lasting. Drink 2020–2035.
The nose is most restrained: the slightest notions of jasmine and nettle appear. With more air, a faint hint of orange peel emerges. The palate is one of streamlined slenderness and precision. This is like a dry laser beam festooned with honeysuckle blossom and fresh lemon zest. There is something that draws you ever deeper into stone and citrus. The lightness of the dry palate remains simply astonishing.
This hearty blend of 75% Cabernet Sauvignon, 16% Cabernet Franc and 9% Merlot is what put Justin on the map, and it still impresses with its elegantly woven tobacco, leather, cocoa, blueberry, and caramel aromas. It hits the palate softly, showing black cherry, baking spice, milk chocolate and faint mint notes, ending in a finish that reveals a firm tannic structure.
Deceptively light in color, yet aromatically rich, this sends up a lush mix of berries, spices, chocolate and pastry notes. It's youthful and vibrant, with clean, bright, tangy fruit that has the balance and power for excellent development in the bottle. Drink now through 2025.
Smoked beef and pork aromas with hints of flint, licorice and black currant show on the nose of this 45% Syrah, 43% Cabernet Sauvignon and 12% Petit Verdot blend. The palate is soft upon entry, growing sticky with robust tannins as it opens, and offering black peppercorn, teriyaki and lavish black cherry flavors. Drink 2019–2033.
Gently perfumed hints of ripe pear almost seem to have a floral dimension. On the palate the mellow, generous and totally ripe pear fruit unfolds fully and gives glimpses of very juicy ripe, dried and baked fruit. All of this richness is countered by lemony freshness. There is an earthy textural element, and more shimmering fruit reminiscent of bottled mirabelle plums. This is generous and just off dry, with a concentrated, convincing and very moreish balanced richness.
Lifted aromas of both tart and ripe green and yellow apples appear, alongside hints of wet pebble and faint notions of quince. On the palate, these flavors are wrapped in citrus freshness on a sprightly, lively, concentrated and wonderfully dry palate. This is full of life and finishes on a pervasive, all-encompassing zesty lemon freshness. Lovely now but will evolve majestically. Drink now through 2035.
This full-bodied, well-oaked wine offers vanilla, coconut, cinnamon and red cherry aromas that meet tart cranberry, strawberry, nutmeg and cream flavors. It's expansive, well balanced, spicy and delicious and will taste best after 2020.
This bottling screams white earth, with a chalk- and riverstone-like minerality and clotted cream and lemon scents. That minerality carries through to the palate, where a chalky note blends with Asian pear and marshmallow. It's a study in how to present delicate flavors with pizzazz, which the Talley family has been known to do.
Cedary, spicy berry aromas are pure Rioja, but this also tosses in campfire, graphite and toast scents. A massive palate is concentrated and needs time to unfold. Flavors of plum, spice cake and pepper finish with a powerful tailwind of chocolate, herbs, spice, berry fruit and acidity. Best from 2020 through 2030.
From one of the major estates in Pessac-Léognan, this is a fine, stylish and tightly structured wine. It has spice and intense acidity to balance the dark tannins and black-currant fruit. It is going to need several years to really mature. The estate is owned by André Lurton who was influential in creating the Pessac-Léognan appellation. Drink from 2024.
Layers of black fruits and tight tannins set this wine on a serious road. It has the freshness of the vintage as well as the bright acidity. At the same time it is structured and dense. This second wine of Château Margaux is ripe and ethereal in its lift. Drink from 2024.
Gentle notions of pear emanate from the glass. The palate is equally gentle: ripe pear fruit, balanced by lovely lemon freshness. There is an arresting interplay of residual sweetness and zesty acidity at the core. However, the full spectrum of glorious pear fruit becomes fully expressed on the incredibly long finish. This has immense depth and will hold its poise for a few years yet. Drink now through 2025.
An incredibly creamy notion of ripe pear rises from the glass. There are also hints of sultana. The aromatic effect is one of huge generosity. The palate, on the other hand, is taut and medium dry, corralling its richness with pleasantly bitter texture and pervading freshness. There is utter concentration, immense verve and freshness. A delicious and moreish contrast between utter precision and the abandon of generosity. The finish is long, dry and fresh.
The second wine of Ausone is powerful with plenty of firm tannins. At the same time, it is ripe, with softness from the fruit and light extraction. It is a very fine wine, delicious with its acidity and its black-currant fruitiness. Drink this wine from 2024.
Layered botrytis that gives the wine both its richness and dense texture. It is sweet but with a dry core and crisp acidity, it will age well. It is going to be a beautiful wine, with tropical fruits, apricots and wonderful final acidity. Drink from 2025.
This value-minded selection blends plenty of bright citrus and apple flavors with good acidity and a hint of sweetness for a complete and pleasing package. It is medium bodied, light on its feet and refreshing. Enjoy now.
An extroverted, oaky and earthy wine, this has almost pungent aromas of wet soil and wood smoke, then meaty and savory flavors backed up with plum and black cherry. There is something compelling about it for adventurous drinkers.
While the nose on this dry Riesling is vivacious with lifted floral and apple aromas, the the palate is subdued with fresh, but straightforward apple and pear flavors, along with savory hints of reeds and stems. Lemony acidity is refreshing, leading to a swift finish.
While subdued on the nose, this offers tart red cherry and currant flavors that are refreshing and crisp on the palate. The wine is not deeply concentrated or complex, but its elegant frame and vitality are attractive.
Aged in white oak barrels from Minnesota, the winemaker's home state, this wine offers exotic honeysuckle and baked pineapple at its core, beautiful aromas that gain weight on the texture. Toasted caramel and coconut define the finish.
This blend of Roussanne, Viognier, Marsanne and Grenache Blanc offers aromas of honey and beeswax. It's light and airy on the palate, refreshing if a tad watery with lemon juice, and a buttered-roll finish.
Powdery lychee and crystallized mango aromas feed into a texturally good palate with mild oily notes and good acidity. Orange, mango and lychee flavors are straight from the textbook, while lychee is the clearest lasting flavor on the finish. Drink with Indian or spicy Asian foods.
Freshness and refreshment are the strong points of this well-balanced, tangy, medium-bodied wine. It is light in fruit aroma and subtle in flavor, offering some crisp apple inspiration on the palate and finish.
Made with Barbera (40%), Sangiovese (40%), Merlot (12%) and Syrah, this is light in color and offers notes of coffee, herbs, pencil eraser, apple and plum. It's quite light in style but shows pleasing nuances.
This blend of Tinto Cao (30%), Tempranillo (29%), Touriga (27%) and Souzao is aromatically quiet yet unctuous in feel with rich, sweet cherry and herb flavors.
Cherry, rubber and leather aromas are tight and announce a punchy, bright, raw palate with raspberry and plum flavors. Snappy and rubbery feeling on the finish, this is a fresh Monastrell with red-fruit tendencies.
Aromas of radiator dust, lime and green apple are a bit heavy and scattershot. However the palate is tangy and lean, with cutting acidity. Lead flavors of waxy apricot are backed by orange and lime notes, while the finish is dry and waxy, with a yeasty, leesy flavor bolstered by snappy acidity.
While the aromas of herbs and citrus seem a bit muddled, the flavors of ruby-red grapefruit, passion fruit and guava are crisp and sharply delineated on this mostly dry wine that is startlingly reminiscent of POG fruit juice—in a good way.
Aromas recall scorched earth, underbrush, stewed prune and coconut. Oak spices, vanilla and coffee dominate the warm palate. It lacks fruit richness and can't stand up to the assertive tannins or the heat of evident alcohol.
Oaky up front, with aromas of animal, tar and medicinal red-berry fruits, this Petit Verdot is grabby and hard in feel, with a mix of oak, cough drop, berry and peppery flavors. It's big and sticky but solid on the finish.
This blend of 47% Mourvèdre, 27% Grenache and 26% Syrah conveys cherry, cranberry, pear and woodspice. The acids are tart and searing, seeming out of place.
This bright, fresh and fruity wine presents an appealing mix of apricot and peach aromas, ripe and round peach flavors and a smooth texture. Rather full bodied, it is lifted by a good amount of tangy acidity.
Light and fruity, this smells like cucumbers, honeydew melon and green apple, tastes delicately appley and feels gentle in texture. It's light bodied, low in alcohol, fresh and thirst-quenching.
This full-bodied, concentrated wine is dry, quite firm and tannic in texture. It smells rich and a bit earthy, and tastes like blackberries, cranberries and beef. The style will accompany rich, meaty food very well.
This tastes and feels mellow and approachable, with gentle aromas of plums, dried herbs and tomato, and medium body with moderate tannins. It is supple and easy to drink.
A red blend from the eastern end of the Entre deux Mers region, this is a smooth and already accessible wine. Attractive black fruits and soft tannins accompany touches of vanilla. It's ready to drink.
Mostly Malbec (34%) and Petit Verdot (32%), this nonvintage blend offers up-front oak notes of vanilla and dill. These are followed by cherry cola, green herbs and a whiff of volatility, along with sweet flavors and grippy tannins.
Orange blossom and acacia perfume this very pretty, spry wine. Tart green apple and pear flavors are straightforward yet refreshing on the palate, finishing briskly on a zesty lemon-lime note.
Made with 100% Sauvignon Blanc, this is very fresh, very crisp and herbaceous. It's all about grapefruit, lemongrass and a mineral texture. It should be aged for a few months, so drink from late 2015.
In this full-bodied wine, the tannins are still to the fore. Its weight promises a chance to age and bring out the underlying red fruits. A smoky element from the wood aging gives complexity. Drink this attractive wine from 2017.
Initially this wine is dry and very firm, dominated by extracted tannins. Gradually the black fruits assert themselves and give a more juicy view. Probably the 14 months in wood was too long and the wine needs time to recover. Drink from 2018.
Elegantly styled, this offers notes of herbs, red cherries, barnyard, mint and cedar. Sweet fruit flavors are backed by chalky tannins.
A serious personality comes from oaky, earthy aromas and flavors, a bit of welcome astringency and good acidity. It seems full bodied, dry and rich enough in texture to be appealing without losing the tanginess underneath.
In the south of the Entre deux Mers region, this old property has produced a fruity, wood-aged wine. It has spice, smoky tannins and attractive, balanced black currant fruits. It's likely to age over the medium-term, so drink from 2016.
This is a tribute wine, its proceeds donated to ALS research. Floral, it's also smoky, with a hit of tannin prominent on the palate on first sip. Bittersweet chocolate, game and leather finish things out.
Recalling the time when Cahors was on the pilgrim route to Santiago in Spain, this wine is a solid, structured example of Malbec. Textured berry and black currant fruits are still developing alongside the dark, dry tannins. With the tannins and the final acidity, it needs to age. Drink from 2017.
A senior version of Purple, this wood-aged wine is smooth, soft and generous, with attractive mint perfumes along with toast. Big black plum fruits are generous and warm, while still solid with tannins. The wine is drinkable, although it will be better in 2017.
This full-bodied, focused and distinctive wine has a deep, dark color, aromas of black cherry and cocoa, and flavors that are ripe and lingering. It offers power and complexity.
Light as gossamer, this nimble off-dry Riesling enlivens the palate with delicate bursts of lemon and lime accented by blossom and pear. Brisk and clean on the finish, it's best enjoyed for it's youthful refreshment.
Heavily oaked and overtly toasty, this mature, barrel-aged Godello from Bierzo is round, creamy and braced by citric acidity. Resiny, oak-based spice, melon and peach flavors are consistent and lasting on the finish. Drink now.
Savory apple and lemon, earth and bramble tones persist throughout this semisweet Riesling. It's refreshingly crisp and nimble making it an easy everyday pairing for casual chicken or fish dinners at home.
Whiffs of saffron and crushed stone lend an earthy tone to the nose, but the palate of this semidry Riesling is all honey and tangerines. Laser-cut acidity lends precision and lift to a moderately long finish. Quaffable and invigorating.
With cedar and tobacco aromas, and vivid black cherry and black currant flavors, this full-bodied red has lots of fruit character and complexity to match its firm tannins and bold texture. A welcome spice component from oak aging starts in the aroma and continues through the finish.
This luminous Nebbiolo from the mountain vineyards of Valtellina opens with a pretty fragrance of rose petal, red berries, baking spice and a whiff of crushed rock. The understated palate delivers ripe wild cherry, cinnamon-spice, licorice and a mineral note alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2017.
Classic notes of lychee and rose petal waft on the nose of this delicate Gewürztraminer. Off dry in style, it's brisk and dancing, offsetting plush, juicy white grapefruit with spice and honey. Finishes briskly on a sugary pastry note.
Interesting aromas of mint, Christmas spice, licorice and blackberry feed into a dense, blocky palate with firm acidity. Ripe, loamy flavors of blackberry and prune finish with oak-driven graphite, mint and resiny flavors along with a note of residual cassis. This is half Garnacha and half Carignan.
Mas des Bressades is one of the standard-bearers of Costières de Nîmes, and this rosé is a perennial favorite. Red berries and cherries lead the way, wrapped around a core of citrus acidity. It's light to medium in body, with a pleasantly silky feel to the finish.
Plum, berry and compost aromas are earthy and a bit herbal. Tight, drawing acidity drives the palate, while minerally plum and berry flavors are sinewy and tough, with raw tannins steering a rugged, staunch finish. Drink this gritty Carignan now through 2018.
This plump, medium-bodied rosé offers hints of peach and melon fruit, then finishes long and citrusy. It's very pale salmon in color, with an attractive coppery tint.
Initial aromas of wet cement, black cherry and cassis grow more rubbery, reduced and animal-driven the longer this Syrah sits around. Bright, fresh and fiercely tannic, this deals dark-berry flavors, peppery spice and raw oak on top of dry, herbal notes. Oaky but not overly charred or pushy on the finish.
Strongly wood and toast laden, this is a dense and tannic wine with a complex structure that dominates the blackberry fruits. It is firm and, although it can be drunk now for its rich structure, will be better from 2016.
A rainy cement minerality on the nose of this sweet wine manages to cut through the sugared oranges, honeysuckle and ripe, tropical white fleshed fruit, from peach to cherimoya. The palate is full of honeyed apples, white peach and pineapple, but the decent acidity and chalky element stops it short of treacly.
As tasty as a pear tart, this combines mild pear, vanilla and almond flavors on a smooth texture. Medium bodied, balanced slightly to the soft side, and quite fruity, it will make a satisfying glass at cocktail time or with dinner.
Roasted apples, toasted peanuts and just a touch of buttercream combine for an inviting nose on this wine from the Terravant facility in Buellton. Oak is quite noticeable on the palate, where flavors of buttered toast, white peach jam, orange marmalade and marzipan shine.
Gros Manseng takes the lead in this ripe and full wine with a fragrant floral character as well as great fruitiness. It's fresh while also having a creamy, smooth character. It is ready to drink, but will be better from the end of 2015.
This is an apple-fresh sparkling wine with a lively mousse. It crisp, refreshing and clean, with attractive fruitiness.
Aromas of concentrated raisins and hot brandy emerge from this dessert sipper that would do well with a cigar or fudge. The raisin elements consume the palate as well, with some acidity arising with force in the midpalate along with flavors of dried orange peels and lemon peels.
Intensely concentrated, this wine offers minerally petrol and hazelnut, particularly on the nose. A salinity marks it on the medium-bodied palate, giving it an intriguing edge before finishing in a squeeze of lemon.
In the Alentejo, Syrah exhibits power, body and concentration without much subtlety. So this wine is solid, tannic with considerable pepper and spice flavors that dominate the black fruits. Wood aging has softened the tannins. Acidity gives the wine a fresher finish.
Despite its youth this is quickly peaking in flavor. It's light but interesting, with rosewater, red apple and strawberry flavors. Tannins are soft and there's a suggestion of saddle leather. It offers plenty of enjoyment for a Pinot at this price.
Fruit flavors of blue plum and blueberry are matched to a light layer of chocolate from aging in 30% new French oak. It's smooth and polished, but feels a bit stripped as it fades out, leaving some orange-flavored acidity.
The two signature white grapes of Côtes de Gascogne give a wine flavored with tropical fruit and honey. It is delicate, ripe and just off dry. The wine is ready to drink although it will be better at the end of 2015.
Mild, clean aromas of dusty apple, lees and peach set up a creamy, full palate with low acidity and moderate definition. Papaya and melon are the lead flavors, while the finish is melony and oily, with low acidity and not much, if any, minerality.
This is a barrel-selection reserve, with unusual scents of pine needles and baking spices co-mingled. Deep cassis and dark chocolate flavors prevail, and the tannins have not yet softened and smoothed. Give this a few more years of bottle age.
This has a dark red-black color, with densely packed aromas that seem so tight they are not giving up much. Flavors of concentrated dark plum and white pepper are interlaced with very firm tannins. It's full bodied, young and wound up tight. Drink it now for the wow factor, or be adventurous and save it until 2020 to see how much more flavor complexity develops.
This 100% varietal wine is velvety and dense in all the right ways, striking a balance between fruit-forwardness and savory coomplexity. Blackberry, blueberry and coffee flavors lead the palate, highlighted in supple tannin.
Blackberry, cherry and plum notes form this estate wine's fruity core, complemented by an earthy thread of cedar, pencil and tobacco. Dry, firm tannins give it a structure that takes time to unwind, the finish marked by powerful grace and spicy clove.
The style of all the Craggy Range reds has evolved in recent vintages to reflect greater elegance and length. This is a medium-bodied red, supple and immediately approachable, filled with cherries, plums and vanilla and graced with a subtle floral note. Drink now–2025.
This is sourced from a longstanding, well-respected vineyard, and it does the windswept, foggy site justice. Tightly woven and youthful, it shows broad, juicy black cherry, wild strawberry, baking spice, compost and brawny oak flavors.
There's a dense core of floral fragrance as well as cola and black olive touches on the nose of this tightly wound wine, which needs ample time to open. Bright and pure purple fruit meets lilac flavors on the palate, its density buoyed by balanced acidity. Over time, touches of herb and spice emerge.
Made from 64% Pinot Noir and 36% Syrah, this copper-tinged refresher is nutty and tangy with acidity. It offers deep grapefruit, mandarin orange and lime flavors that persist, please and quench on the palate, all in a compelling, complex light-bodied package.
This is the latest wine from the same producer as the popular Whispering Angel rosé. It has a wonderful herbal character that lifts the bright red-currant fruit. Acidity and fruit are allied with the mineral texture to create a wine that will be just right for food.
Blending the three red grapes of Gaillac (Duras, Braucol and Syrah), this is an impressively rich wine, with signs of its wood aging just integrating with the ripe black-currant fruit and firm tannins. It has an exhilarating aftertaste of acidity and young fruits. Drink from 2020.
From a beautiful estate close to the sea, this wine has a lightly salty character. That contrasts with the zinging energy and ripeness of the fruit and balanced acidity. Citrus zest and spice complete this harmonious wine. Drink from the end of 2017.
Bottled in the Fabre family's specially designed Gallé bottle, this wine is a classic. It has fine ripe, but crisp, fruit and delicious balanced acidity. With its fresh character, which is contrasted with the intense fruit, this is a real food friendly rosé.
On the nose, this bottling from one of the family's estate vineyards seems dark with boysenberry and purple flower touches and tangy with hints of plum skin and red currant. The palate is deceptively full bodied but also surprisingly tangy, delivering sour cranberry and eucalyptus flavors.
Two-thirds of this wine is Malbec and one-third is Merlot. Aromas of asphalt, plum and orange rind lead to a palate that possesses a lovely sense of balance and length.
Slightly reduced and showing plenty of barrel imprint, this vineyard designate is bold and grippy, its soft entry marked by clove spice and cigar. The fruit is a combination of plum and dark cherry, subtly wrapped in vanilla toast.
Full-fruited plum notes tinged with cinnamon lend a touch of warmth and generosity to the nose of this wine. The palate holds these them tight in a fresh, citrusy embrace. It's medium bodied and harmoniously balanced, with a moreish tension, fine tannins and long-lasting freshness.
Red and black cherry aromas mark the nose of this wine. The palate is similarly primary and vibrant, with supple ripe berry and cherry notes. On the finish, the freshness and taut structure become apparent. This is irresistibly juicy right now but will evolve. Drink now–2023.
Cinnamon and pepper add interest to the ripe blueberry fruit on the nose of this wine. The palate has the same generous, spicy flavors, with enough freshness to provide tension. The tannins are ripe but firm, framing all the juicy, dark and brooding fruit with perfect counterpoint. This is refreshing and intriguing.
A staple of California winemaking, this vintage is as good as ever—perfectly polished, with light aromas of toasted oak and crisp green apple, lemon-lime and tempting butter flavors, and a medium-bodied frame. The texture is silky smooth, and everything tastes harmonious and balanced.
This exceptional release is firm and focused, with lip-smacking acidity. Tart apple and tangy limeade pack the core flavors, underscored with wet-stone minerality.
This smooth and sophisticated wine from the property formerly known as Breggo has good structure, no rough edges and a solid core of ripe plum and black cherry flavors, seasoned lightly with spicy oak. The texture is moderately tannic, but velvety and polished.
From the head-trained, dry-farmed Martinelli Vineyard, this wine is like a lens into history. It's mighty flavorful, too, with jubilant cinnamon, rose water and wisteria aromas and a rounded and juicy palate of plum and boysenberry fruit. Asssertive baking spice notes and chalky tannins complete the picture.
Enticing wildflower, chopped herb and ripe orchard fruit scents abound in this radiant wine. The palate doles out white peach, yellow pear and nectarine notes, with stony mineral accents. Fresh acidity brightens the creamy flavors.
The understated but alluring perfume of ripe pear peel leads the nose of this wine. Its concentrated body has the lovely, peppery, yeasty midpalate feel that we always hope for in Grüner. Subtle, light, savory and fresh, it finishes dry and zesty.
A hint of passion fruit mingles with yeasty tones in this wine's aroma. The palate doles out savory, sage-like notes in a concentrated, textural frame. It finishes with a lemony, lip-smacking and refreshing fillip.
Rich and mouth-filling, this full-bodied wine has plenty of fruit flavor and is structured with fine-grained tannins and bright acidity. It blends ripe berry and plum notes with more vibrant red cherry for complexity and has a lingering, layered finish.
Plump Meyer lemon aromas meet rounded coconut, pineapple cream and honeysuckle on the nose of this bottling from the pioneering Franscioni family. On the palate, it's tightly wound, needing a second to breathe before revealing a sharp lemon peel freshness that cuts through the peachy fruit flavors.
Approachable and jubilant rose petal, root beer, charred meat and ripe cherry aromas show on the dynamic nose of this bottling. The flavors are tighter and more focused, recalling red cherry, rust, tobacco and lava rock minerality. Tannins coat the palate with a delicate grip.
Fleshy red cherry notes dominate this wine's nose and palate. An edge of smoke adds aroamtic complexity to the fluid and fresh flavors. It's juicy and generous with a welcome counterpoint of supple tannins that lend structure to all the cherry fruit.
The savoriness of yeast still lingers on the nose of this wine. The palate brings herbal and sage-like notes to the fore, highlighting its concentrated, rich flavor. Citrus overtones herald the finish, while the saltiness demands you take another sip.
Blended from Muns Vineyard near the mountaintop and Wiedemen Ranch near the base of the appellation, this bottling offers cola, black plum, Concord grape and dried rose petal scents on the complex and elegant nose. The flavors are layered and woven on the palate, evoking elderberry, charcoal and purple flower touches.
A tender, floral aroma hovers over the glass in this typical Viennese field blend. The fresh, brightly toned palate sings with a host of flavors: crisp green apple, fragrant grape, zesty citrus and juicy yellow pear. A phenolic, spicy edge gives it depth and appeal. A real glassful of Vienna that's dry and delicious.
Dense and brooding, this opens with aromas of dried cherry marinated in spirits, cured meat, scorched earth, leather and French oak. The concentrated palate offers black cherry, plum, vanilla, licorice and robust tannins alongside the heat of evident alcohol that throws it off-balance.
Aromas of roasted coffee bean, ripe plum and dark kitchen spice waft out of the glass. The forward palate offers mature wild cherry, licorice, sage and espresso that carry through to the firm finish. Drink through 2019.
Bright and fruity, this wine has a warm, ripe streak that gives it richness. It also has all the freshness and crispness of the vintage while showing a more creamy character that's typical of Saint-Aubin. It is developing quickly and could well be ready to drink in 2016, certainly by 2017.
Warm and hearty, this opens with aromas that recall mature dark-skinned fruit, leather, truffle, scorched soil and a menthol note. The big, chewy palate delivers black cherry marinated in spirits, ground pepper and anise alongside a tannic backbone. The heat of evident alcohol dominates the finish and gives it a monolithic quality.
Baked strawberry, stewed peppercorns and incense show on the peppery nose of this wine from veteran vintner Chuck Carlson's personal label. The flavors are darker than expected, with dried blueberry, boysenberry, beef char, cracked black pepper, tobacco and a touch of leather.
From a popular vineyard on the eastern edge of the appellation, this wine offers aromas of cherry, cola, slate, orange rind and cinnamon stick. The palate is light but bursting with herbal character and sizzling acidity. It shows fresh oregano and thyme alongside tart pomegranate fruit in the midpalate. A eucalyptus quality extends into the finish.
Lime leaf, white peach and mineral aromas rise up from the glass, with botrytis adding a grace note. The spritzy stone fruit flavors are off dry and show spot on balance.
Creamy wood aromas are prominent in this ripe, yellow-fruit-flavored wine. A rich, textured character hints at minerality while bringing out fresh fruit and acidity. It is ready to drink, although some of the bursting acidity will calm down by late 2016.
This single-vineyard Chablis is produced from organically grown grapes. It is intensely fruity, crisp with refreshing apple and lime flavors. The acidity is still bursting out of the glass and needs to calm down to bring out the steely texture. Drink from 2017.
This wine features tempting clove, black cherry and pomegranate flavors. It has great balance, an easygoing texture and a clean, fruity finish. It's medium to full bodied, but the oaky flavors and tannins stay well within bounds.
Spine tingling acidity is offset by streaks of fresh tangerine, lemon and apple flavors in this laser-edged sparkling wine. It's persistent in petillance but boasts a distinct delicacy of mousse. The finish is fresh and perfumed, ending on a lingering white-blossom note.
Aromas of hickory, herbs and leather work to accent berry scents on what is a woodsy yet elegant bouquet. Saturated, chewy and tannic, this Rioja tastes of oak, clove and plum fruit, while the finish loses its fruit fast and ends largely with barrel-related notes of resin and toast.
This wine is aromatically reserved for the variety, with notes of flowers, white peach and pear. The palate has sweet stone-fruit flavors that linger on the finish.
This wine smells smoky, minty and almost meaty. It tastes rich and complex, brightened and spiced by lavish use of new oak, yet built on enough ripe blackberry flavors to achieve a robust balance. It's well made in a deliberately oaky style.
A heavily charred opening emphasizes surface-level oak and baking spices more than fruit. A heavy, jabbing, grabby palate tastes herbal, with stewed berry and prune flavors. A burnt-oak flavor and severe tannins are found on the finish of this muscled-up Tempranillo. Drink through 2020.
This Hungarian rosé is a blend of 33% Kékfrankos, 22% Cabernet Franc, 21% Cabernet Sauvignon, 16% Merlot, 5% Pinot Noir and 3% Syrah. It has aromas of strawberries, freshly sliced apple and fresh cherry juice. It flavors are those of bright cherry and red raspberry with a pleasant tartness on the finish.
D. Ventura's 2012s succeed in capturing the elegance of Ribeira Sacra Mencía. This shows aromas of brick dust, spice, tomato, animal fur and dried cherry. The palate is fresh and direct, with punchy raspberry and plum flavors that turn tangy and lean on a quick finish.
One of this new appellation's strongest showings, this Sémillon offers dried apple, dried mango, smoke and strawberry blossoms aromas on the nose. The palate is very intriguing, with flavors of roasted apples and pears, squeezed lime, lemon rinds and a sprinkle of vanilla on the finish.
HandCraft has been consistently good with this grape, and this complex wine is another excellent example. Intriguing aromas of wood smoke and rosemary lead to concentrated fruit flavors like pomegranate and cranberry. The mouthfeel is layered and nicely tannic, and flavors seem to go deep.
Mancini has 20% Carignane field-blended within, and shows burly, thick black fruit at its core. Integrated oak supports black cherry and pepper. A dustiness on the palate that finishes ripe.
From White Hawk Vineyard near Los Alamos, this wine has a nose that is both edgy with tangerine rind and ripe with warmer crème brûlée notes. The palate plays the same trick, welcoming with broad white peach, Japanese pear and vanilla-cream flavors, yet clinging to a zesty line of lime pith throughout.
Lifted and floral up front, this Mencía smells like light, schist-infused plum and raspberry. There's mild grab to the palate, which offers flavors of buttery oak, rubber, strawberry and rose hip. A dry, slightly briny tasting finish fades away elegantly.
Lavish on the nose, this wine, made by a blind classical pianist, shows aromas of blackcurrant, caramel and hickory smoke. The heavy smoke on the nose fades away once sipped, and the palate proves quite grippy and tightly wound, showing tar, black pepper, teriyaki, black plum and cocoa-dust flavors.
Aromas of blueberry jam, scorched earth, leather, truffle and coffee lead the way on this ripe, accessible wine. The chewy palate offers fleshy blackberry, anise, toast, espresso and a confectionary note alongside mature but rather fleeting tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
A straightforward, modern dry Riesling, this wine shows a slight hint of gasoline, citrus blossoms, wet river stones and apple skin on the nose. The mouthfeel is more full than Mike Callahan's other bottlings, with waxy citrus skins, lime pith, sour apple, alkaline elements and a touch of white jasmine.
Dark cherry red in color, this blend of Cinsault, Grenache Noir, Syrah and Tempranillo features a bouquet of cherry with a hint of green pepper. Flavors of raspberry, pomegranate, orange peel and spearmint are set in a web of soft tannins that fully announce themselves at the mouth-coating, minty finish.
Cherry and plum, chocolate and peppery herbs combine here in a well-structured wine with some years of life ahead. Aged in one-third new French oak for 11 months, it will reward decanting or aeration if you are drinking it in the next year or two.
Cabernet Sauvignon (68%) takes the lead, with Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Malbec rounding it out. High-toned aromas of graphite, herbs, black cherry, espresso and barrel spices lead to tart flavors that are lighter in style, with the tannins providing some grip.
Made from 89% of the indigenous grape Karasakiz and 11% Merlot, this wine presents scents of strawberry and orange blossom. It comes on bright with flavors of cherry and clementine, but as smooth tannins coat the mouth, notes of anise, violet and smoke join the chorus. The finish is also bright, with lingering flavors of smoke and flowers.
Made from a majority of Cabernet Franc, this wine is blended with 11% Cabernet Sauvignon and 1% Syrah. The fruit comes from the winery's estate vineyard in Rutherford as well as from Stagecoach Vineyard in Atlas Peak. Initially smoky, it reveals pockets of cedar and herb before unleashing juicy black cherry, chocolate and dusty, big tannins.
There is a rich blend of Aragonez, Touriga Nacional, Trincadeira and Syrah in this full, ripe, black-fruit tinged wine. It is already open and generous, with wood spice tones and a smooth texture. Drink now through 2018.
The second Syrah in the Collaboration Series, this was aged in 30% new puncheons, and opens with a potent, roasted nose. Espresso and cacao flavors dominate the tart, acidic berry fruit, with a lick of lemon verbena running through the finish.
Refermented in the bottle, this frothy, delicious red delivers rose, blue flower, juicy raspberry, sour cherry and yeasty aromas that carry over to the dry, refreshing palate. It's elegant with wonderful intensity and a juicy, lingering finish.
Though designated simply as Washington state, this five grape, Cab-dominated, Bordeaux-style blend is sourced entirely from Kiona's Red Mountain vineyards. Aromatic—almost pungent—it's built around soft, ripe red fruits, augmented with a touch of leather and toast. Round, full, and ready to drink, it spent a year in 60% new oak.
Lemberger was planted here in the 1970s, and Kiona still carries the torch for the grape. Earthy, gamy, soft and smooth, it has a quickly maturing flavor set, built upon chocolate and cherries, with dusty tannins.
In this vintage, the winery stays true to its reputation for making balanced, more restrained Cabernet, offering firm, structured tannins and bright cassis and blackberry around a deft sprinkling of dried herb. Built to age through 2025, it is equally enjoyable now, after a decant. Small percentages of Merlot, Petit Verdot and Malbec factor in.
A blend of Cabernet, Syrah and Merlot, it's sappy and loaded with tart red fruits. An explosion of strawberries and raspberries washes across the tongue, resolving in pretty cherry flavors buoyed by natural acidity. Forward and full bodied, it's has enough structure to age gracefully over the next five years.
This Syrah was aged in 100% new oak, two thirds American and one third French. Barrel flavors abound, especially vanilla, and the fruit seems a bit overshadowed at this point in time. The tannins are aggressive, and overall this young wine seems to need more time in bottle to smooth out.
This wine was made by Bordeaux-trained winemaker Denis Malbec and his wife, sommelier May-Britt Malbec. They've sourced some exceptional fruit from the Reichel Vineyard, including some Malbec, with some Cabernet Franc also blended in. Offering big tannins that await the cellar, it is otherwise a juicy wine rich in black and blue berry fruit, as well as a taste of graham cracker and cigar. Enjoy through 2025.
Blackberry, blueberry, rubber and violet aromas show a pinch of cool-vintage green. The palate on this Cabernet Sauvignon-Carmenère-Petit Verdot-Syrah blend is tightly wound, with grating tannins. The berry flavors are a touch leafy, while the finish brings red fruit flavors and a touch of carob. Drink through 2018.
Lush in brambly blackberry, this classic Zinfandel comes from a cooler area than usual, the Russian River Valley, which manages to retain small plantings of the variety amid the larger seas of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay. Spicy, the wine is balanced and fairly elegant, medium in body and weight while still packing a punch.
This is a new, value label under the Barons umbrella, produced by consulting winemaker Matthew Loso. Lovely raspberry fruit anchors the flavors, which are sleek and stylish and, show the craftsmanship of much more expensive vino. Dark notes of mineral and a whiff of graphite and iodine add complexity through a surprisingly long finish.
Cassis spritzer and pine tree-like herbals provide a promising start on the nose. It's rich in the mouth, with cherry, blackberry and a nice edge of black pepper.
This is a rich and smooth wine, full of impressively ripe fruit tones without going over the top. Bright acidity brings balance and elegance, with juicy berry flavors rounding out the palate. Drink now through 2019.
A southern Rhone-style blend of Roussanne, Marsanne and Viognier, only 20% was aged in oak. Bright, aromatic, and fleshy on the palate, and showing an array of cucumber, green leaf, lemon oil, pineapple and citrus notes, this impressive white blend hits just the right notes for lighter dishes with an herbal dressing.
A lush bouquet of cooked strawberries, black cherry sauce and just a touch of allspice kick off this fun, drink-me-now wine from Santa Ynez Valley pioneer Fred Brander. Good acidity and smooth tannins reminiscent of plum skin surround a fruity palate, which boasts a flavorful arc.
Among the first vintages from a small, family-run vineyard and winery within the Chalk Hill AVA, this also contains small amounts of Merlot, Cabernet Franc, Petit Verdot and Malbec, all estate-grown. The wine is soft and medium-bodied, brooding in savory leather and herb.
Very spicy, yes, but also subtle, marrying exotic bergamot flavors with a structured, mineral texture. It is rich, cut with pepper as well as nutmeg, allowing room for some fresher acidity at the end. Drink from 2016.
The wine is rich, broad and very spicy. At the same time, it is structured giving space for acidity and a textured character. It's ripe with a touch of pepper as well as other spices. The wine is ready to drink but will be better from 2016.
Plummy and high-toned in red currant and cranberry, this single-vineyard Cabernet is a stunner. It's balanced and elegant, soft in tannins and well structured. A wine that will improve with age, it also gets better in the glass after opening.
The fruit from 40-year-old vines is reticent about showing its character at this young stage. However, in two to three years, the rich and concentrated citrus flavors and steely structure will take over and reveal a dense wine that is aromatic as well as serious. Drink from 2016.
This blend is garnet colored with a hint of eucalyptus in the bouquet, opening up to aromas of black fruit, forest floor and freshly picked mushroom. Minerality abounds on the palate, with flavors of red berries and black plums.
Aromas of black cherry, licorice, leather, violet and a whiff of tobacco open this wine. The palate is still a bit closed but delivers black raspberry, wild cherry, anisette and a note of black pepper alongside big, brooding tannins that need time to come around. Drink 2017–2024.
This elegant expression of Nebbiolo opens with aromas of dried rose, crushed violet, tilled earth, savory herb and a balsamic note. The palate offers juicy black raspberry, dark cherry, truffle, vanilla and a hint of mocha. It's balanced, with fresh acidity and supple tannins.
Initially a bit closed, this opens with aromas of leather, leafy underbrush, tilled soil, wild berry and a whiff of cellar floor. The palate is still primary, displaying red cherry, sage and menthol alongside tightly knit tannins. Drink after 2018.
Celebrating the foundation of Cheval Quancard in 1844, this is a solid, dense and well-made wine from ripe grapes. The balance is good with tannins already integrating well into the juicy, ripe acidity. It's ready to drink but will age at least until 2019.
Don't let the generic California appellation fool you, this is a distinctive Chardonnay. It has subtle flavors of pear and toasted oak, and shows a sophisticated and restrained style, with a vibrant fruit core and good balance. Though medium bodied, it plays crisp acidity off a lush texture and lingers on the finish.
A big, soulful wine, this has slightly funky, earthy aromas that include tilled soil, truffle, leather, underbrush and mature black fruit. The fleshy palate delivers ripe black cherry, juicy raspberry, white pepper, cinnamon, vanilla and a touch of mocha. It's structured, with tightly woven tannins that need time to soften. Drink after 2016.
Earthy, alluring fragrances suggest bright berry, rose petal and tilled soil. The palate delivers ripe, wild cherry completed by notes of vanilla, white and black pepper alongside youthful, bracing tannins. Drink 2016–2024.
A mix of bright red cherry, blueberry, thyme, and rosemary bring nuance to the nose. It's full bodied on the palate, with flavors of black cherry and black plum. A touch of salty minerality brings flair to the finish.
Cute packaging belies the surprising depth to this Riesling. It's remarkably balanced, with an array of mineral, floral and fruit dimensions. Juicy, with preserved peach flavors and zippy lemon acidity, it's a thirst-quenching, solid pick from the Pfalz.
Despite the plural on the “vineyards” designation, the source of this Chardonnay is one vineyard. It's dry, crisp and minerally, with tantalizing lemon, lime, mango and apricot flavors, finished with a French oak toastiness.
There's a minerally, earthy tone from nose to finish on this medium-sweet Riesling, balanced by a palate that's lush in ripe stone fruit and mango flavors. Sharp, laser-focus acidity kicks in on the midpalate, finishing long, with hints of warm spice and honey.
Hints of crushed mineral and struck steel lend a honed, linear feel to this dry, medium-bodied Riesling. It's a bit austere in style, but elegantly composed, with intense apple and pear flavors as well as a streak of lemon-lime on the finish.
Blue flower, blackberry, leather, underbrush and vanilla aromas jump out the glass with this warm, full-bodied wine. The dense, one-dimensional palate offers ripe black cherry and sweet oak accented with vanilla and cinnamon notes. It's already reached its ideal drinking window so enjoy soon.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah, it conveys aromas of red and black currants, black pepper and cedar. The straightforward palate delivers juicy blackberry accented with notes of white pepper, mocha and graphite alongside round tannins. It's ready so enjoy soon.
Although this wine is rich and laden with wood-aging flavors, it certainly does not need such a heavy bottle. Spice, tobacco, new wood and red fruits are well combined in a wine that ripe and ready to drink.
Here's a refined Pinot Bianco with delicate aromas of Alpine wild flowers and white fruit. The palate delivers yellow and green apple alongside a steely mineral undertone and vibrant acidity. It closes fresh and clean.
It opens with a floral fragrance of Spanish broom, jasmine and chamomile. The juicy palate delivers citrus, pineapple and almond alongside crisp acidity that lends a clean, refreshing close.
A forward, softly fruity wine closer to California Pinot than most Oregon examples. The vintage contributes lush fruit flavors of strawberry and cherry, while aging in 20% new French oak brings a layer of smooth milk chocolate.
It has the light, silky texture of Pinot Noir, with powerful cherry jam and red currant flavors, enhanced with smoky oak. A barbecued steak will be the perfect partner, but so will a hamburger, the rarer the better.
This structured white opens with aromas of lightly toasted oak, citrus, golden apple, and herbs. The palate delivers grapefruit, Bartlett pear, nectarines and mineral alongside fresh acidity. It closes on an almond note.
Here's a classic Sauvignon with intense varietal aromas of tomato vine, freshly cut grass and green melon. The linear palate delivers juicy cantaloupe and flint balanced by crisp acidity. It finishes on a note of roasted almond.
Dominated by Merlot at 90%, this is a smooth, rich and generous wine. It does have a tannic core, but that is surrounded by these velvet, ripe berry fruits and opulent texture. The wine is developing well and should be drunk from 2016.
This is a perfumed, aromatic wine with great acidity and fresh black fruits. The wine is already softening with a good fruity character, fresh and bright at the end.
With zippy acidity and a dry finish, this is a Pinot you might want to cellar until 2020. It's rich in oak-inspired raspberry, cherry, cola and pomegranate fruit flavors. The low alcohol gives it a light, silky texture.
While the savory nose leads with subdued notes of apple and lemon, this off-dry Riesling shines on the palate, with juicy stone fruit and yellow cherry flavors. Tangerine acidity adds zip and verve, leading into a finish that's fresh with herbal and floral tones.
A lovely bubbly, with Chardonnay flavors of limes, peaches and oranges. Muscat Canelli adds to the orange theme. The finish is more honeyed than most California bubblies, but crisp acidity makes it balanced. What a great wine with coconut shrimp.
It shows the classic aromas of Alto Adige Sauvignon including crushed tomato vine, just-mowed grass and exotic fruit. The crisp, juicy palate offers cantaloupe, green melon, yellow peach, a hint of spice and mineral, with fresh acidity.
One of the most familiar brands of Champagne, this is a soft, finely blended wine. With its fresh fruits, touch of toast and a crisp aftertaste, it is dominated by Chardonnay, in the Taittinger style. A steely edge creeps in at the end, leaving a wine that is bright and ready to drink.
Subtle and crisp in minerality, this Pinot Blanc has a rich texture and a taste of apple and pear with a savory, herbal element throughout. It would serve nicely as an alternative to Chardonnay, especially on the dinner table.
This structured wine has subtle aromas of apples, vanilla and toasted notes. These carry over to the linear palate together with pear, mineral, lemon zest and lively acidity. Pair it with baked pasta dishes or grilled chicken.
It conveys aromas of tropical fruit, apple and lemon zest, all of which carry over to the bright palate along with almond and a ginger note. Steely mineral signals the finish.
Made from the native Turbiana grape, this attractive wine opens with aromas of beeswax, white spring flowers, green apples and a hint of honey. The fresh, juicy palate offers ripe pear, white peach and citrus alongside fresh acidity that gives a clean finish.
Aromas of green, fresh herbs and lime lend a brassy, vivacious tone that balance out this otherwise ripe, intensely fruity Riesling. It's semisweet in style, with luscious peach and apple flavors.
Crushed mineral and waxy lanolin notes accent intense tangerine and quince flavors on this juicy off-dry Riesling. It's robust on the palate, yet elegant, with a rippling herbal flair.
A darker, quite savory expression of Black Kite's entire vineyard site in the Deep End of Anderson Valley, this Pinot imparts a touch of cardamom spice and high acidity, with a dryness to the finish that gets a lift from that acid at the end.
Very elegant, it opens with refined aromas of rose petals, lychee and a hint of juicy citrus fruit. The full-bodied palate delivers ripe pink grapefruit and steely mineral notes accented with a spicy note of white pepper.
Raspberry jam, orange peel and sweet oak flavors mark this Pinot Noir. It's very dry, acidic and tannic, not showing much of interest now, but the complexity suggests limited ageability. Try after 2017.
Structured but elegant, it discloses delicate aromas of Spanish broom and Granny Smith apple. The savory, creamy palate delivers juicy Bartlett pear, citrus, nectarine and melon brightened by crisp acidity.
Invigorating white grapefruit and lemons are cast against a deep mineral backdrop in this dry, thirst quenching wine. It's delicate and filigreed on the palate with a brisk, tight finish. Drink now.
A bouquet of raspberry, Mediterranean herbs and black pepper pave the way for flavors of blackberry, dark plum, anise and tarragon. Lasting tannins impart a light sense of chalkiness on the tongue that dissipates in a burst of fruit on the bright cherry finish.
This offers a classic Nebbiolo nose of rose petal, dark berry, tilled earth and a balsamic note. The lean palate shows sour red berry, grilled herb, clove and a hint of mocha on the finish. Tightly compacted tannins and brisk acidity need time to unwind. Drink after 2019.
This is a rich and juicy wine, balancing the firm tannins of the Baga with richer fruitiness of Touriga Nacional and Tinta Roriz. It is still young, still showing layers of firm tannins although with plenty of development potential. Drink from 2017.
This wine offers a tight nose of cherry cola and petrol. It opens on the palate by featuring flavors of smoked meat, eucalyptus, cherry, and ripe peach. Lush tannins contribute a fatty umami sensation to the palate.
Aromas of mature berry, aromatic herb and fragrant iris lead the nose while the ripe palate offers mature black cherry, licorice and pipe tobacco. Firm, velvety tannins provide the framework. Showing the heat of the vintage, the fruit is already evolved so drink this sooner rather than later.
A few swirls of the glass release subtle aromas of tilled soil, underbrush, violet, leather and a whiff of menthol. The firm palate offers mature black cherry, licorice and a hint of cinnamon alongside firm, fine-grained tannins.
Aromas of children's vitamins, corn stalk and white peach set up a lemony stony zesty palate with lemon and nectarine flavors. A stony crisp cleansing finish does the job while not faltering.
Loamy berry, cheesy oak, balsamic hints and vanilla notes make for an interesting bouquet. This feels a bit wiry and acidic at its core, while overall it's chunky in stature. Deep warming flavors of kirsch and blackberry finish with heat and jammy weight. Drink through 2017.
Aromas of black cherry, smoked meat and thyme prepare the taste buds for flavors of black cherry, smoked meat, oregano, and lemon zest with notes of dark chocolate. Soft yet persistent tannins coat the palate, culminating in a delightfully bright finish.
Enticing spicy, toasty aromas and robust, dry fruit flavors are matched by very firm, fine-grained tannins in this full-bodied wine. Based on 65% Zinfandel, it has lots to offer, but at this stage an oaky sensation and the astringent mouthfeel indicate that it needs to mellow. Best to drink after 2018.
Earthy and full-bodied, this offers aromas of truffle, scorched earth, leather, game and mature black-skinned fruit. The warm palate offers black cherry marinated in spirits, star anise and clove alongside brooding tannins. It shows the heat of the vintage so drink sooner rather than later.
Funky but not unpleasant aromas of game, scorched earth and cured meat are joined by whiffs of wild berry and leather. The palate shows dried cherry, aniseed, and grilled sage alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink sooner rather than later to enjoy the remaining fruit.
This offers aromas of pressed rose, cherry marinated in spirits, aromatic herb and menthol. The bracing palate shows raw red cherry, clove, white pepper and a hint of mocha while assertive tannins and racy acidity provide the framework. It's still young and aggressively tannic so don't attempt before 2019.
This solid Barolo opens with aromas of mature dark berry, licorice, clove, chewing tobacco and a whiff of crushed flower. The palate reveals red cherry, strawberry, white pepper and thyme alongside bracing tannins. Drink after 2019.
While the texture is light, the fruit and the wood flavors give this wine richness and a ripe, toast and apricot character. It has balanced acidity that allows a fresher edge to develop. The aftertaste, hinting at a steely edge, suggests the wine will age. Drink from 2017.
The spicy aromas resemble black pepper and anise. Fruit flavors are ripe and delicious, and the creamy texture seems to melt in the mouth. This wine offers lots of personality and very good balance.
Dark in color, this Mencía smells of turned earth, roots, herbs, dried cheese, tobacco and baked black fruits. It's round and chunky on the palate, but cobbled together at its foundation. Ripe blackberry and raspberry flavors come with vanilla and creamy notes in front of an ephemeral finish. Drink through 2017.
Aromas of resin, nail polish, overripe plum steeped in spirits, oak and a confectionary note lead the way. The warm palate displays ripe black cherry, cocoa, anise and a whisper of licorice framed in velvety tannins. Drink through 2026.
While the nose is a touch earthy and savory, the core of this vivacious Riesling boasts spicy dried orange peels, tangerine and honey. Lemonade acidity leads a moderately long finish. It's a thirst quenching fresh wine to drink young.
This firm red offers aromas of underbrush, French oak, exotic spice, dried rose and a balsamic whiff of menthol. On the full-bodied palate, a bracing tannic backbone supports dried black cherry, coconut, licorice, roasted coffee bean and oak-driven spice. Drink 2019–2026.
Underbrush, grilled porcini, red berry and grilled herb aromas lead the way. The bracing palate offers dried wild cherry, clove, cinnamon and powdered sage alongside astringent tannins. Drink after 2018.
Aromas of charred earth, forest floor, truffle, sage and mature berry lead the nose. The brawny palate offers dried black cherry, licorice, clove and tobacco alongside tightly packed tannins. You'll also notice the heat of evident alcohol. Give the tannins a few more years to unclench then drink to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Snappy citric aromas of grapefruit and lime are pungent and not too different from Verdejo or Sauvignon Blanc. Accordingly, the palate is fresh and focused, with flavors of stone fruits that are leesy and have a honeyed sweetness. A controlled, mild finish tastes mostly of orange. Drink now.
Layered aromas of blackberry, cassis, leather and dried cheese are inviting. In the mouth, this Garnacha from vines more than 100-years-old is jammy and friendly. Candied almost syrupy flavors of blackberry and black cherry finish dense and chocolaty, with modest acidity. Drink through 2017.
Aromas of baked plum, mocha, toast and sweet pipe tobacco drive the nose while the palate offers palate offers dried black cherry marinated in spirits, vanilla, nutmeg and leather. A note of dried sage closes the finish while austere tannins provide bracing support. Drink 2019–2029.
Dark berry, tilled earth and gamey aromas lift out of the glass. The firm palate offers black cherry, chocolate, peppermint and oak alongside tightly packed tannins that leave an astringent finish. Drink after 2018.
Simple and delicious, this vibrant, mouthwatering red doles out fleshy black cherry, crushed blueberry, ground pepper and clove alongside polished tannins. An almond note graces the finish. This makes a fantastic everyday wine.
A lacy spray of sweetness extends from start to finish on this fruity, fresh Kabinett. Fresh apple, pear and tangerine are honeyed and lip smacking, energized by a streak of lemonade acidity on the finish.
Aromas of pressed violet, ripe berry, menthol and a touch of exotic spice emerge on this full-bodied red. Showing its hot-vintage origins, the firm palate doesn't boast a lot of fruit richness but offers licorice, espresso, powdered sage and dried cherry accompanied by bracing, grainy tannins.
This wine is smoky, ripe and packed with tannins. The fruit gives the wine weight although it is not yet fully developed. There is a toasty background to this rich wine with its juicy red-berry fruits and acidity. Drink from 2019.
This wine is ripe with yellow fruits and rich pears. It has a rounded character, with a creamy texture shot through with acidity. The aftertaste has touches of grapefruit and a minerality that gives good texture. Drink from 2018.
Some smoke and crushed boysenberry play on nose and palate. The pleasant smokiness reaches into all corners of this soft but fresh wine. It has a lovely rounded balance despite the relatively light body where earthiness is as present as fruit.
Plenty of wood flavors give this wine a ripe, spicy and toasty character. It is rich and perfumed, with attractive hints of yellow fruits as well as the new wood. The wood does need to calm down before the wine is ready. Drink from 2017.
This wine is firm and structured, with complex tannins and dark black-fruit flavors. Under the tannins, juicy fruit with considerable acidity gives signs of great potential. The aftertaste again comes back to the structure. Drink from 2019.
The first take on this Rioja Reserva is of charred wood, then that's backed up by piercing aromas of cherry and plum. This feels hard and abrasive, but powerful. Flavors of roasted plum, tomato and herbs finish with grating tannins and a lemony oak flavor.
This hefty but sluggish Cabernet Sauvignon-led blend opens with forceful aromas of earthy, herbal red-berry fruits and sweet oak. Chunky, thick and almost syrupy in feel, this tastes of herbal plum and spiced berry fruits. The longer it rests, the fatter and chunkier it gets. This warm-vintage has weight issues.
Much care goes into this blend, which was fermented both in neutral wood and in stainless steel. Just 10% went through malolactic. It's a light, clean, well-defined effort, offering accents of salad greens, celery and lemon verbena around crisp apple fruit flavors.
Vines from high up in the vineyard produce this cool, fresh wine. It has bright acidity along with intense grapefruit and lemon fruits. The wine is tangy with a strong texture. Drink from 2018.
Citrus, Mediterranean herb and cut grass aromas lead the way. The crisp palate offers Bartlett pear, unripe apricot and grapefruit alongside tangy acidity. A saline note backs up the succulent finish.
Grassy stone fruit and lime zest paint a pretty picture in this full-bodied white, which retains enough acidity to stay refreshing and bright on the palate. Floral tinges of tangerine blossom and lemongrass finish things out.
Earthy, beefy, almost metallic aromas, then beefy, tamarind-like flavors make an exotic but rustic profile for this fascinating medium-bodied wine. The texture is rather lean and a tasty sour-cherry character develops on the finish.
This light-golden colored wine has an appealing combo of fruit and spice flavors and a rich but lively texture to make it both tasty and appetizing. It has the creaminess and unctuousness that many people love while balancing it with fresh acidity.
A healthy 20% of Merlot provides additional softness in this food-friendly, well-integrated wine, bright in crisp cranberry and mellowed oak and tannin. Well-made at a fair price, it's well worth the seek.
This medium-bodied Shiraz represents a solid value. Sourced from 80 growers, it's meant to present a “portrait” of the Barossa region, and it delivers vanilla, plum and black olive aromas and flavors, supple tannins and a lingering mocha finish.
Aromas recalling hay, yellow flower, dried herb and a light vegetal note carry over to the bright, medium-bodied palate along with lime and green apple. A flinty mineral note underscores the vibrant flavors.
Fruit is sourced from multiple sites, including Sangiacomo and Rancho Salina for this elegant wine which is slight in black and blue fruit with a subtle notion of leather. Structurally, it has a deep complexity of tannins that remains integrated on the back of the palate. It's ready for the table.
This is a tasty, appetizing, classic Rhône-style blend that starts with savory, peppery aromas, fills in meaty sour-cherry flavors and has a lightly tannic texture and medium body. It's a good wine to stock at home, and will be versatile with food. Made from 73% Grenache, plus Mourvèdre and Syrah.
Grapefruit, lemon and star anise aromas lead this refined but friendly wine. On the palate, lush, rounded flavors of melon and tropical fruit are supported by brisk acidity. Great combination with richer poultry or pork dishes.
One of the rarer grapes in California, this bottling shows composting roses, raw and roasted beef, violets and tar on the nose. It's quite rich on the sip, with blueberries, blackberries and olallieberry-pie flavors, cut by tangy cherry skins and a touch of milk chocolate.
Baked lemon, jasmine and honeyed Pink Lady apples open the nose of this bottling, a special anniversary project for the usually Rhône-only winery. Lighter flavors of lemon zest and crisp apple flesh sit atop a chalky grip, making for a wine that would work well with a variety of lighter foods.
Packed with fruit, this is a ripe, rich wine. Red berries are cut with attractive citrus flavors. Full in the mouth and with a good tannic character, this is a wine for food, especially spicy dishes.
You'll find aromas of dried orchard fruit, beeswax, Spanish broom, acacia and an earthy note on this spry nine-year-old. On the mature, waxy palate, fruit flavors have given way to tertiary sensations of honey, toasted nut, candied citrus zest and flinty mineral that carry through the to lingering finish. A saline note signals the close.
This appealing wine offers threads of pine needle, sage and parsley, augmenting a clean core of apple and white peach fruit. The complexity is compelling, and the length impressive, though it fades just a little too much to stand up to long term aging.
Crushed lavender, herbs de Provence, white pepper, raw game and leather elements show on the complex nose of this mountaintop bottling. The palate shows dried beef and dense berry flavors bolstered by black pepper and bay leaf spices.
Rich and elegant aromas of black cherry, blueberry, vanilla, lilacs and Concord grape show on the nose of this wine. The palate is complex, with pencil lead, black pepper, elderberry, milk chocolate and bloody meat flavors, bound by a strong tannic structure.
Grapefruit blossoms, lime zest, lemonade and chilled green apple slices show on the fresh and citrusy nose of this bottling. Tangy lime and richer pear flesh notes lead the palate, where a salty character cuts through the juiciness.
Warm, furry aromas of olive, prune and animal hide are challenging. In the mouth, this cool-year Carmenère feels tartaric and narrow, with grating tannins. Fiery flavors of black fruits, raisin and oak are mildly salty and herbal, while the finish feels hot and tastes of minty oak and black fruits.
This coastal-influenced Chardonnay smells of green olive, iodine and sea brine more than fruit. A citric, high-intensity palate is chalky and minerally, as intended. Flavors of dried, briny stone fruits and apple are outright salty like the ocean, while the finish on this new wine from chalk-based soils is woody and briny, with juicy acidity.
Springtime in a bottle! This is fairly bursting with aromas of fruit and flower, and carries them into bright strawberry flavors with a gentle touch of sweetness.
Aromas of flaky piecrust, spiced apple and macadamia nut are vivid and alluring. Medium to full in body, this proves to have both flesh and spine.
Raspberry and cherry aromas are juicy and wiry, with no fat at all. Pure, simple berry flavors come with a touch of spice, while the finish is short yet juicy. An easy-drinking and approachable selection.
Black cherry fruit is encased in dark barrel flavors of smoke, charcoal and espresso. Tart acids tighten up the finish. It's got plenty of power, but the fruit seems over-matched by the oak, at least at this young stage.
This crisp, clean Chardonnay is a good find for $20. Fruity with a suggestive note of caramel on the nose, it delivers a taste of citrus and green apple on the palate that evolves into a satisfying finish that's entirely tropical.
This firm wine has a strong element of dry tannin that masks the fruit. It feels cool, fresh and rather hard now. It needs to age until 2015 when it will become a richer, fuller wine.
Plum and berry aromas are mildly jammy. This is fast moving on the palate, with racy acidity pushing berry flavors that veer toward tartness but pull back in time. An aggressive finish is also almost sour but not, while oaky coffee and bitter chocolate flavors wrap it up.
Oak, toast, coffee, espresso, chocolate and vanilla sensations dominate this wine along with notes of black plum. There's not enough fruit richness to stand up to the oak or the astringent wood tannins on the finish.
Delicate red-cherry and raspberry aromas pick up touches of tobacco and turmeric. On first sip, the palate is charming and elegant, if a tad slender. But pop the wine into a decanter and it puts on some weight, becoming fleshier.
Spunky, youthful aromas of wild berry and currant are aggressive but fresh in style. This is a juicy, forward, bright Malbec with boysenberry flavors followed by a short wave of bitter chocolate and toast. It finishes in the same style.
There is a strong barnyard aroma here, although the palate is cleaner and more modern. With rich tannins and a dark plum character, it's ripe and structured. There is a strong mineral element, giving the wine power and density. Drink from 2016.
This rich wine conveys flavors of milk chocolate and ripe black plums. It is smooth, velvet-textured and full in the mouth. Acidity and firm tannins are a fine supporting cast to the black fruit flavors at the end. Drink from 2016.
The wine is soft, rounded, showing light acidity and fresh fruit. Melons and pears dominate the ripe flavors, with a touch of almonds and rich aftertaste.
This well-balanced wine is both fruity and structured. It has good acidity, blackberry juice flavors and a bright aftertaste. It can be drunk now–2018.
The wine is firm, dominated by black currant fruit and a strongly tannic character. That gives fresh fruitiness that is contained within a solid, structure. The wine will need time to round out. Drink from 2017.
This wood-laden wine shows more toast than fruit at this stage. It does have plenty of blackberry flavors for the future, giving texture to the firm structure. Drink from 2016.
It has attractive acidity and fragrant, juicy fruitiness. Underneath this fruit is a solid structure, fine tannins and fresh final acidity.
This is a more rustic, woody Cabernet than many from Mendoza. The nose suggests asphalt, herbs and spice more than bright fruit. A tannic yet solid body and flavors of coffee, herbs lead to a finish that tastes dry and a bit hollow, with coffee and cocoa notes.
Crisp and herbaceous, it has a riper background of yellow fruit fleshiness. It's bright and likely to soften and round out into 2015.
Bold and fruity, this saignée-style rosé is 75% Syrah and 25% Pinot Noir. Tart, tangy, primary fruit flavors of watermelon, strawberry and cranberry fill the mouth, turning just a little bit sour in the finish.
From Sonoma and Napa-grown grapes, this white combines fresh peach and apricot flavor with a taste of grapefruit and fresh-squeezed lime. Through the middle it veers into vanilla and tropical swirls, before finishing crisp.
Raspberry and plum aromas are mild and entirely fresh. This is your typical cosecha wine with plenty of fruit and giddy-up. Punchy plum and cherry flavors finish with controlled bitterness and a spot of burnt toast.
Aromas of quince, piecrust and apricot transfer onto the palate, which feels soft, round and intense. Notes of apricot and white strawberry cobbler mark the slightly off-dry finish.
This starts out leafy and earthy, but improves with airing. A lively palate delivers herbal plum and berry flavors along with ample spice. The finish is bold and bright initially, transitioning to tight and peppery.
This Serbian white has notes of fresh cut grass, lime peel and mango on the nose, and tropical fruit flavors like mango and guava on the palate. The finish is  nice and crisp with good acidity.
This has aromas of vanilla, plum and black raspberry. In the mouth, there are ripe fruit flavors followed by a wave of tart cherry flavor.
The wine comes from a small vineyard close to Margaux, but only with the lowly Bordeaux appellation. It is ripe, full and rich, with smooth tannins and an approachable character. Red fruits dominate, along with wood flavors. The acidity at the end gives a lift.
Compact berry and plum aromas set up a solid, nice palate with nectarine and raspberry flavors. This is very drinkable and easygoing; the finish is mellow but propped up by core acidity.
Rounder and less textured than a Sancerre, this style of Menetou-Salon makes a fine alternative Sauvignon Blanc. It's full and ripe, fresh with acidity while also bringing some tropical fruits into play. It's ready to drink.
There's plenty of dark chocolate and full-throttled blueberry fruit in this Petite Sirah from a producer with a longstanding history with the grape. Subtle yet chewy black pepper plays on the palate, finishing in a waft of smoke.
Light in color and weight, it's earthy in pastoral mushrooms and forest floor. Layers of spicy clove twirl throughout the palate aided by a juicy strawberry bouquet and a restrained touch of oak on the finish.
Layered botrytis that gives the wine both its richness and dense texture. It is sweet but with a dry core and crisp acidity, it will age well. It is going to be a beautiful wine, with tropical fruits, apricots and wonderful final acidity. Drink from 2025.
The nose is a blend of peach and earth. The palate comes with great intensity, holding against the sweetness with an exquisitely delicious streak of quinine bitterness which lends direction and precision, along with tangy lemon freshness. This creates ample tension and moreishness as well as a lip-smacking medium-sweet finish.
Generosity, expressed by the scent of sun-ripened Bosc pear peel, becomes immediately apparent. The ripe and luscious pear aromatics pervade the palate with their fruity, almost floral charm. There is some residual sweetness, boosting these flavors even more, but balance is struck by shining freshness and a pear-peel texture to finish with beguiling freshness. This is textbook stuff and utterly moreish.
From the BudBreak Vineyard, this lengthy and complex wine is bold and fresh—an exploration of cranberry and orange flavors complemented by spicy acidity. It continues to unveil itself in the glass, revealing additional components of toasted oak and forest mushroom.
Meant to impart the meaning of the “true” Sonoma Coast, this bottling hails from Campbell Ranch near Annapolis. It impresses with its lush complexity: cherry grenadine and forest floor scents, with cardamom spice and a hint of orange peel. It's full-bodied and densely powerful.
Enticing floral, wild berry, new leather and truffle aromas seemingly float out of the glass, growing darker with spice as the wine takes on air. The palate is elegant and still youthfully austere, offering Marasca cherry, crushed raspberry, clove and white pepper flavors, framed by firm, chewy tannins and vibrant acidity. A licorice note closes the lingering finish. Drink 2020–2035.
This is a terrific discovery from a tiny winery and remote hilltop vineyard near the Pacific Coast. It's deep in color, with aromas evocative of forest floor, rhubarb and rosemary. The palate is woven in structure and enticing fruit and spice flavors. Balance, complexity and moderate tannins combine in an attractive profile and unique personality.
This producer gets the entirety of this vineyard's three acres of grapes, showing off the site in the clarity of its black tea and rose petal aromas. Silky in texture and light on the palate, it puts on a tenacious sideshow of pine and black pepper scents.
The purest, freshest note of lemon zest and lemon oil creates a dreamy nose. The palate brings in a stony texture that characterizes the entire wine. There is something enduring and stone-like about this, framed with lovely lemon purity. This has barely had time to express itself. There is more to be had from this wine in the future. The long echoes of stone and citrus promise that. Drink 2020–2035.
The term Vintner's Select, which is unregulated, can be abused. Here it really means something, as this is the winery's top cuvée—an excellent effort that spent 18 months in oak. There's extra depth in the cherry and cassis fruit, packing a powerful, compact punch all the way through a long, polished finish.
This blend of Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon, Grenache and Petite Sirah is quite dark in the glass, with blueberry, sharp cedar, clove and vanilla aromas. It coats the palate with soft, lavish tannins, offering zesty black fruit with cappuccino, teriyaki and cracked pepper flavors.
Intense aromatics of plum, cherry and red currant introduce this wine. There's a whiff of pencil lead, and the bold fruit flavors capture a bit of brush and bramble along with perfect, clean ripeness. A suggestion of candle wax comes up. This is a powerful wine that continually demands your attention.
Tight and concentrated, this is a very fine wine. Great acidity and great tannins go with the most intense fruit. Blackberry and black-cherry flavors power through this structured wine. There is also elegance and a fine sense of style. Drink from 2025.
This is another stunner from Pellet Estate, from a high-elevation vineyard within the proposed Petaluma Gap appellation, which is highly influenced by fog and wind. Wet stone notes and a crisp, lemony acidity suggest freshness, neither detracting from body or texture.
Layered black cherry, cola and raspberry flavors laced with cardamom and clove make this medium-bodied red succulently memorable. It's balanced and forgiving, its supple texture yielding to a creaminess on the finish that's irresistible.
This plump Pinot Noir uses 20% new French oak to deliver nutmeg, gingerbread spice and licorice aromas. Black cherry and raspberry round out the nose and integrate on the palate, which is hearty and rich in Christmas spice and crushed rock notes. An excellent choice for anyone seeking a full-figured Pinot.
Sharp lime and pithy grapefruit notes accented by sour cream, chalk and limestone lead the nose of this wine from the pioneering Talley family. Nectarine, sea salt and Gravenstein apple flavors play on the palate, which strikes a happy balance between savory and tart, finishing with buttery depth.
Intense citrus is overlaid by the ripe pineapple and tropical fruit. This delicious complex wine, with its tangy acidity, tightly coiled texture and touches of wood aging, is packed with great fruit. Drink from 2021.
This is a small, 10-acre property, owned by the Moueix family, at the heart of the Pomerol plateau. With its 30% Cabernet Franc it is perfumed and ripe, giving delicious black fruits as well as a firmer structure. The wine is set for a long aging with great potential. Drink from 2024.
The nose is reminiscent of the yellow and aromatic peel of ripe apples. It even has a touch of mirabelle. The palate continues in the same fruit-driven vein with that pure, ripe but tart apple note that seems to be such a feature of Alsace Riesling. The palate is dry and has a fine-boned structure that almost crunches in the mouth. A pure lemon note makes for a very clean-cut finish.
Earth, apple and citrus align on the nose. The palate brings out more earthiness but also pits the notions of mellow baked apple against absolutely tart lemon freshness. Stone and earth cling constantly to these flavors and draw you in. The palate is pure and slender, totally dry and taut. The finish is of lasting lemon zest. This needs time but is full of promise. Drink 2020–2035.
Tingly acidity complements the lush, full-bodied concentration of this estate-grown beauty. It's both soft and sensual in tone. Pine, orange peel and pomegranate notes play against the richness and add freshness to the chewy tannin. Best enjoyed 2024 through 2034.
Big, bold and ripe, this is a rich wine with its 82% Merlot. It is jammy while keeping its tannins and structure. Ripe and full in the mouth, the wine is firm enough to age for a long time. It is going to be generous, full and ripe. Drink from 2025.
This is a tightly coiled wine, still firm and packed with tannins as well as fruit. It has a strong dry core that is lifted by the bright acidity. This is going to be a very complete wine, all the elements well in place. Drink from 2026.
This rich wine has a good proportion (31%) of Cabernet Franc to give it a perfumed structured character. It is dense and with considerable tannins at this stage. By contrast, the fruit has enormous potential with rich blackberry and black-plum flavors. This chateau has made a considerable stride in this vintage. Drink from 2022.
A remarkable effort, especially considering how difficult the 2011 vintage was in South Australia. Floral notes emerge on the nose, dressing up hints of raspberry compote, while the medium- to full-bodied palate delivers raspberries, cherries, cinnamon, clove and pepper. The tannins on the finish are fine and silky. Drink now–2025.
Totally sumptuous peach notes dance on nose and palate. They are boosted by plump sweetness and given shape by zesty freshness. Everything about this is opulent and intense. The freshness of 2014 makes it lip smacking and bright, despite all of its richness. This finishes medium sweet while the peachy flavors last and last.
A pure startling cherry note rises from the glass. It is flanked by notes of autumn forest, tar and dried orange rind. Evidently, there is some development and evolution here. The palate is alive and fills not only the mouth but all the senses with its alluring aromas, yet it is firmly anchored in earthier tones. The body is svelte and fresh: its fine-boned structure is as much down to fresh acidity as it is to finely flexed tannins. This is profound, lasting and delicious but also deliciously light.
Glorious apple freshness jumps from the glass, there is the slightest touch of honey, too. On the palate, the apple notions persist: there is fresh and baked apple, adding both crisp and mellow notes. Everything is brightened by lemony freshness on a concentrated but elegant and balanced body. Flavors last and have a long, clean and bone-dry finish. This is good enough to go the mileage. Drink now through 2030.
This is an exceptional vintage for La Croix. It has voluptuous fruits that emerge from the ripe dense tannins. They are balanced by intense acidity and a crisp edge. The wine, with its still stylish character, is one to age for a long time. Drink this very fine wine from 2025
Produced from 25-year-old vines in a six-acre parcel, this is a soft, ripe, red-fruit-flavored wine. Wood aging is noticeable in the smoky character of the wine and the ripe tannins. Otherwise, the juicy, fresh fruit dominates. Drink from 2017.
This plump, dry rosé features hints of wet stone, strawberry and barely ripe melon. It's vibrant, refreshing and an ideal thirst-quencher for the warm months ahead.
Made with 100% Sangiovese, this savory red delivers aromas of black cherry, scorched earth and chopped herb. The palate offers crushed blackberry, juicy cherry and black pepper. Fine-grained tannins provide support.
This is a steely, smoky wine derived from flint soil. It is crisply fresh, tight and nervy with a strong tang of acidity as well as good intensity. It needs to age, so drink from late 2017.
Lavish on the nose, this wine, made by a blind classical pianist, shows aromas of blackcurrant, caramel and hickory smoke. The heavy smoke on the nose fades away once sipped, and the palate proves quite grippy and tightly wound, showing tar, black pepper, teriyaki, black plum and cocoa-dust flavors.
Aromas of blueberry jam, scorched earth, leather, truffle and coffee lead the way on this ripe, accessible wine. The chewy palate offers fleshy blackberry, anise, toast, espresso and a confectionary note alongside mature but rather fleeting tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
A straightforward, modern dry Riesling, this wine shows a slight hint of gasoline, citrus blossoms, wet river stones and apple skin on the nose. The mouthfeel is more full than Mike Callahan's other bottlings, with waxy citrus skins, lime pith, sour apple, alkaline elements and a touch of white jasmine.
Dark cherry red in color, this blend of Cinsault, Grenache Noir, Syrah and Tempranillo features a bouquet of cherry with a hint of green pepper. Flavors of raspberry, pomegranate, orange peel and spearmint are set in a web of soft tannins that fully announce themselves at the mouth-coating, minty finish.
Cherry and plum, chocolate and peppery herbs combine here in a well-structured wine with some years of life ahead. Aged in one-third new French oak for 11 months, it will reward decanting or aeration if you are drinking it in the next year or two.
Cabernet Sauvignon (68%) takes the lead, with Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Malbec rounding it out. High-toned aromas of graphite, herbs, black cherry, espresso and barrel spices lead to tart flavors that are lighter in style, with the tannins providing some grip.
Made from 89% of the indigenous grape Karasakiz and 11% Merlot, this wine presents scents of strawberry and orange blossom. It comes on bright with flavors of cherry and clementine, but as smooth tannins coat the mouth, notes of anise, violet and smoke join the chorus. The finish is also bright, with lingering flavors of smoke and flowers.
Crushed blue flower, ripe plum and baking spice are some of the aromas you'll find on this polished red. The round, chewy palate offers ripe black cherry, cinnamon and white pepper alongside sleek tannins. Drink soon to capture the juicy fruit.
Dark berry, vanilla, roasted coffee bean and toast aromas waft out of the glass. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, anise, espresso and oak-driven spice alongside grippy tannins that leave an astringent finish.
Made from a majority of Cabernet Franc, this wine is blended with 11% Cabernet Sauvignon and 1% Syrah. The fruit comes from the winery's estate vineyard in Rutherford as well as from Stagecoach Vineyard in Atlas Peak. Initially smoky, it reveals pockets of cedar and herb before unleashing juicy black cherry, chocolate and dusty, big tannins.
Strikes of lime cut through rich honey and tangerine flavors in this dry, revitalizing Riesling. Hints of smoked nuts, pollen and dusty mineral lend savory complexity to the midpalate, but the finish is pristine and perfumed, lingering on a lovely honeysuckle note.
Bringing together fruit from the different soils of Pouilly Fumé, this rich wine offers pear and apricot flavors as well as a strong citrus element. It also is a smoky, steely wine with a firm texture that underlies the fruit. Drink from 2017.
This wine is intense, herbal and aromatic. The palate shows some rounded citrus and yellow-fruit flavors although green gooseberry comes through strongly. It is fresh, floral and deliciously ready to drink.
This wine is red-violet in colour and has a nose of raspberry and fennel. There is a nice interplay of medium-weight tannins and bright acidity, with flavors of cranberry, tart cherry, chocolate and flint. The zesty finish is followed by the lingering presence of soft tannins on the tongue and gums.
Made from the local grapes Bogazkere and Öküzgözü, this wine features aromas of black cherry, white chocolate and orange peel. A bright cherry flavor with notes of orange zest is set against a more complex backdrop of cooked cherries with touches of mocha and eucalyptus. Smooth, long-lasting tannins linger on the palate, joined by a final burst of pomegranate.
This cherry-red wine is made from 100% Kadarka and has aromas of cherry, dried cherry, black pepper and cherry cola. It greets the palate with tastes of dark chocolate and tart dried cherry while finishingly lively.
One of this new appellation's strongest showings, this Sémillon offers dried apple, dried mango, smoke and strawberry blossoms aromas on the nose. The palate is very intriguing, with flavors of roasted apples and pears, squeezed lime, lemon rinds and a sprinkle of vanilla on the finish.
HandCraft has been consistently good with this grape, and this complex wine is another excellent example. Intriguing aromas of wood smoke and rosemary lead to concentrated fruit flavors like pomegranate and cranberry. The mouthfeel is layered and nicely tannic, and flavors seem to go deep.
Mancini has 20% Carignane field-blended within, and shows burly, thick black fruit at its core. Integrated oak supports black cherry and pepper. A dustiness on the palate that finishes ripe.
From White Hawk Vineyard near Los Alamos, this wine has a nose that is both edgy with tangerine rind and ripe with warmer crème brûlée notes. The palate plays the same trick, welcoming with broad white peach, Japanese pear and vanilla-cream flavors, yet clinging to a zesty line of lime pith throughout.
Lifted and floral up front, this Mencía smells like light, schist-infused plum and raspberry. There's mild grab to the palate, which offers flavors of buttery oak, rubber, strawberry and rose hip. A dry, slightly briny tasting finish fades away elegantly.
Mossy, earthy, lightly stewed plum and berry aromas come with accents of peppery spice and olive. In the mouth, grabby tannins attack the cheeks, while flavors of plum, tomato and prune finish with a reprise of cheek-assaulting, hard tannins. Drink through 2022.
Soy, black fruit and asphalt aromas are strong on the nose of this wine by the Four Sisters project. The palate is varietally pure, with black pepper, tar and boysenberry. It dives a bit deeper as well, showing coffee and dark chocolate character.
This provides a very good example of the varietal in a velvety-smooth style. It tastes dry but generous, nicely balanced and just tannic enough to be appetizing. Flavors are a warm combination of berries, light spices and a touch of oak.
Light gold to the eye, this wine features a bouquet of pineapple, chopped parsley and baking bread. It is full on the palate, blending Seckel pear, Granny Smith apple and fresh mint. It is cooling in the throat, and the lingering finish offers a wave of bright acidity.
Austere, this needs time in the glass to unwind and develop into the full-bodied, more exuberant wine it becomes, a mix of cedar, thyme and leather. At first unpenetrable, the tannin softens into smooth layers of black plum and pepper.
This tastes and feels mellow and approachable, with gentle aromas of plums, dried herbs and tomato, and medium body with moderate tannins. It is supple and easy to drink.
A red blend from the eastern end of the Entre deux Mers region, this is a smooth and already accessible wine. Attractive black fruits and soft tannins accompany touches of vanilla. It's ready to drink.
This bright, fresh and fruity wine presents an appealing mix of apricot and peach aromas, ripe and round peach flavors and a smooth texture. Rather full bodied, it is lifted by a good amount of tangy acidity.
This full-bodied, concentrated wine is dry, quite firm and tannic in texture. It smells rich and a bit earthy, and tastes like blackberries, cranberries and beef. The style will accompany rich, meaty food very well.
A serious personality comes from oaky, earthy aromas and flavors, a bit of welcome astringency and good acidity. It seems full bodied, dry and rich enough in texture to be appealing without losing the tanginess underneath.
Mostly Malbec (34%) and Petit Verdot (32%), this nonvintage blend offers up-front oak notes of vanilla and dill. These are followed by cherry cola, green herbs and a whiff of volatility, along with sweet flavors and grippy tannins.
Light and fruity, this smells like cucumbers, honeydew melon and green apple, tastes delicately appley and feels gentle in texture. It's light bodied, low in alcohol, fresh and thirst-quenching.
Ripe, brambly notes accentuate luscious blackberry and cassis flavors in this fleshy, full-bodied red blend. It's a straightforward wine with baby-soft tannins underlining its forward, fruity style.
Made in an obviously oaky style, this has spicy, smoky vanilla and nutmeg aromas, plus equally high-intensity and almost sweet flavors. A relatively smooth texture accompanies the full body. Generous and ripe fruit flavors come out with each sip and add depth.
A blend of Syrah (46%), Malbec (27%), Merlot (20%) and Cabernet Franc, this conveys dried and fresh herbs, cherry, woodspice and coffee. It's supple in feel backed by tart acidity and rather dry tannins.
Mounds Bar-like barrel notes dominate the plummy, slightly raisined-seeming fruit found on this 100% varietal wine. The lighter fruit flavors of the vintage can't match the oak's intensity.
Light in color for a Cabernet, this conveys black currant, fresh blackberries and coffee. It's a bit thin in the middle but remains pleasant and straightforward on the edges.
Heavy wood aromas are mitigated on the palate by the ripe fruit, making for a rich wine with black plum flavors as well as a core of tannins. It's going to develop well and quickly, so drink from 2016.
This wine is lean, more about structure than tannins. Some juicy fruitiness is overwhelmed by the dry core of the wine that seems over-extracted.
Attractive and balanced, this has light tannins and fresh black currant fruitiness. Everything is in the right place, correct if not more. The aftertaste has a good, food-friendly acidity.
This austere wine is almost skeletal in character. It offers plenty of tannins and structure and not much fruit. The wine feels hard and tough.
Marked by red berry fruits and soft tannins, this has a juicy character, with touches of wood aging that are already integrated. The aftertaste, with its fresh currant acidity and rounded fruit, shows that this will be ready to drink soon. Drink from 2016.
A plush ripeness pushes on the palate, with a taste of baked apple and tropical fruit that falls flat somewhat on the finish, its layers of oaky vanilla disappearing in a mist.
This wine offers notes of peach, honeysuckle and lime leaf. It's sweet and lightly spritzy in feel, with lavender flavors on the finish.
This wine comes from Château le Gardera on the slopes above the Garonne river in the Entre-deux-Mers region. It's a big, wood-aged and spicy wine that's full of attractive red berry fruits. There is a dry core of tannin, so the wine could age although it is quite ready to drink now.
This mild-flavored wine delivers light apple, floral, almond and maraschino-cherry flavors, a smooth, soft texture and medium body. Although subtle, it does develop more complexity in the glass.
This nicely fruity, fresh wine presents a blend of apple, floral and slightly sweet flavors wrapped in a pleasing texture. Medium bodied, it tastes like a colorful fruit bowl concentrated into one glass.
Caramelized apples and toasted squash-seed aromas arise from this wine, which offers good zing but a more oxidized style on the palate. Flavors of nut-based syrups, dried citrus and slightly sour orange juice arise once sipped.
This blend of 75% Cabernet Sauvignon and 25% Syrah is fairly weak on the nose, with black cherry, dark spice and crushed rocks emerging with steady swirling. Purple fruits and graphite minerality show up on the palate, but this wine still needs time to come out of its shell.
This medium-bodied blend conveys cocoa, raspberries, green herbs and bell pepper. Green flavors take the lead backed by lightly astringent tannins.
A whiff of matchstick figures prominently on the nose in this intense white, which was stainless-steel fermented and aged. Nonetheless it takes on the taste of wood and preserved lemon, finishing on a bittersweet note.
The wood aging is still showing in this young wine that needs time. Dry, firm and toasty, it also has the light, fruity character of the 2013 vintage with raspberry, blueberry and acidity that's still too intense. Drink from 2016.
The barrel aromas of vanilla and coconut are far out front of the fruit on this blend of Petite Sirah (40%), Zinfandel (33%), Lemberger (20%) and Syrah. It's full bodied with the wood overwhelming any sense of varietal flavors.
The volatility on this wine is distracting. It's a shame because it's otherwise well constructed with notes of Red Vines, vanilla and cherry, with a palate-coating feel.
Aromas of pencils shavings, menthol and grilled herb lead to a palate that opens with bright red berry and herbaceous notes. Green, astringent tannins create an abrupt finish.
The two signature white grapes of Côtes de Gascogne give a wine flavored with tropical fruit and honey. It is delicate, ripe and just off dry. The wine is ready to drink although it will be better at the end of 2015.
Mild, clean aromas of dusty apple, lees and peach set up a creamy, full palate with low acidity and moderate definition. Papaya and melon are the lead flavors, while the finish is melony and oily, with low acidity and not much, if any, minerality.
Strongly wood and toast laden, this is a dense and tannic wine with a complex structure that dominates the blackberry fruits. It is firm and, although it can be drunk now for its rich structure, will be better from 2016.
In the Alentejo, Syrah exhibits power, body and concentration without much subtlety. So this wine is solid, tannic with considerable pepper and spice flavors that dominate the black fruits. Wood aging has softened the tannins. Acidity gives the wine a fresher finish.
Despite its youth this is quickly peaking in flavor. It's light but interesting, with rosewater, red apple and strawberry flavors. Tannins are soft and there's a suggestion of saddle leather. It offers plenty of enjoyment for a Pinot at this price.
This is a barrel-selection reserve, with unusual scents of pine needles and baking spices co-mingled. Deep cassis and dark chocolate flavors prevail, and the tannins have not yet softened and smoothed. Give this a few more years of bottle age.
Fruit flavors of blue plum and blueberry are matched to a light layer of chocolate from aging in 30% new French oak. It's smooth and polished, but feels a bit stripped as it fades out, leaving some orange-flavored acidity.
Classic varietal aromas of pear flesh and skin open into just slightly underripe fruit flavors. The wine is balanced and adds tart apple to the pear fruit.
Polkura's first value-priced Syrah opens with earthy black-fruit aromas that are thick yet not precise in character. The palate feels wide, chunky and not particularly elegant. Flavors of baking spice and herbal blackberry finish peppery and chunky, with a touch of resiny oak.
Soft, ripe and juicy, this wine is full of ready-to-drink fruit housed by soft tannins from light wood aging. Mainly fruit-forward in style, a bright acidity kicks on the finish to balance the palate out.
This is a hard, edgy and tannic wine that has a bitter edge overlaying the fruit. It seems tough, although there are hints of ripe berry fruits that are hiding away. Some softening over the next year will offer integration. Drink from 2016.
Like most Leyda Sauv Blancs, this pops with cool-climate aromas of bell pepper and grapefruit. It's narrow on the palate, with razor-sharp acidity and green tannins. Bell pepper and briny citrus flavors finish sharp, with a touch of sourness.
Squeezed lemon rinds and a faint whiff of petrol show on an otherwise reluctant nose from this off-dry wine. The palate reveals a racy, finely focused acidity that zings across the palate, hiding the residual sugar at first before allowing the ripe nectarine and apple soufflé elements to carry the flavors.
This bright and engaging wine looks quite deep in color, smells jammy, tastes fresh, young and gushing with ripe blackberry and blueberry flavors. It's not too tannic, not too full-bodied, appropriately dry and easy to enjoy.
This has a dark red-black color, with densely packed aromas that seem so tight they are not giving up much. Flavors of concentrated dark plum and white pepper are interlaced with very firm tannins. It's full bodied, young and wound up tight. Drink it now for the wow factor, or be adventurous and save it until 2020 to see how much more flavor complexity develops.
Densely brambly in red and black berry ripeness, this wine from a superb, high-elevation vineyard site is soft through the midpalate, before revealing megawatts of power and oak on the back of the tongue. Earthy, it finishes awash in vanilla-tinged oak.
Supple and fruity, this is bright with red fruits given a lift with spice. The wine is all about fruit with acidity to add a fresher character. Tannins are already integrating meaning the wine will be ready soon. Drink from 2016.
This is a ripe, perfumed blend of Sauvignon Blanc and Sauvignon Gris. It is smooth and creamy in texture, with rich apricot and pear flavors. Spice comes from five months wood aging. It is ready to drink.
A Portuguese classic, this fresh and fruity wine comes from a small zone in the heart of the Lisboa region. It is citrus flavored with delicious lime and pear flavors, fine acidity and a bright, zesty aftertaste. Drink now.
This is a fruity, full wine that is dominated by Arinto, giving fresh, lemon and apricot flavors. It is crisp, lightly textured and offers a bright tang of zest and acidity on the finish. Drink now.
There's a touch of sweetness around fruit flavors of apple, pear and melon. This has a forward, easy-drinking style, and that hint of honey finishes out with a streak of caramel.
A 100% varietal wine, this is both soft and dense, herbal and restrained in cranberry and red currant. Dry and dusty, the body is medium to full bodied, and the finish medium-long. Enjoy now.
This has pleasant oak aromas suggesting buttered toast, and fairly rich, ripe fruit flavors that resemble peach, pear and a touch of fig. The texture is smooth, almost creamy, the body is medium and the flavors stay fresh through the finish.
Strongly briny and raw on the nose, with an insistent aroma of tomato sauce, this cool-region Pinot is austere at first, then dry, raw and snappy by the midpalate. Racy red plum, currant and spice flavors finish dry, with blazing acidity.
This vibrant sparkler opens with aromas of ripe red berry and spice. Made from Frappato, the lively palate doles out wild strawberries, crushed cherries and just a hint of white pepper alongside firm acidity and persistent bubbles.
Gritty, tarry plum and raspberry aromas are firm and good. This feels wide, fleshy and tomatoey. Plum, raspberry and currant flavors turn more oaky and toasty as they open, while the finish is lightly herbal and peppery in flavor, with zesty acidity.
One of many excellent values to be found among the 2012 Southern Rhône wines, this is supple in style, with ripe cherry and chocolate accented by vanilla and sandalwood. Drink now–2016.
Violet and red cherry aromas are followed by flavors of tart cherry, mesquite smoke and pepper on the palate. A little angular but overall nicely rounded by Syrah, this Xinomavro blend is a good cohort to meats and cheese.
Savory, slightly saucy aromas of plum, berry, tomato and leather come with a hint of oak. This is a bit choppy and tannic, with savory, roasted flavors of tomato, plum, currant and spice. A touch of saltiness and raw-oak flavor rise up on the finish.
This wine is rich and structured while also approachable. It is meant for drinking young with its ripe, black currant and plum skin flavors, stalky acidity and great depth of flavor. Drink from early 2016.
The Lompoc-based winery blends 59% Grenache Blanc, 25% Marsanne, 15% Roussanne and 1% Viognier from four vineyards to make this delicate jasmine- and coconut-laced bottling. The palate exhibits decent tension and a sizzle of fresh acidity, delivering bright lemon and pear flesh flavors.
While the nose of this Viennese field blend is shy, the palate brims with fruit: zesty citrus, grapefruit pith and green and yellow apple. Streamlined and textured with a moreish, pervasive and brightening freshness, it tingles with herbal spice on the finish.
Dry yeasty aromas control the nose on this moderately sophisticated rosé that's made entirely from Trepat. In the mouth, this is solid but not thick. Dry peach and nectarine flavors are clean and finish with just enough girth to chew on.
With a long skin maceration to give plenty of flavor, this wine has fine ripe red-berry fruitiness as well as a rich texture. It is smooth although there is a touch of minerality from the schist soil. La Londe, a new appellation, is worth watching. Perfumed and fruity, the wine is ready to drink.
With its proportion of Mourvèdre in the blend, this is a ripe and perfumed wine. It has a rich sumptuous feel with ripe strawberry and crisper red currants. The wine is generous and ready to drink.
Cassis and elderberry scents pair perfectly with tobacco and loamy dust aromas in this serious blend of 32% Cabernet Sauvignon, 31% Merlot, 25% Cabernet Franc, 6% Petit Verdot and 6% Malbec. Tobacco accents the black fruit on the palate as well, with dill, anise and charcoal touches. It's firmly structured and bone dry.
Organic Cabernet Sauvignon and Tannat give this wine both its great fruit and its structure. It is a densely tannic wine with a solid core that then bursts out with black-currant and black-plum fruits. Intense acidity partners the concentrated fruit. Drink from 2020.
This is a young obviously wood-aged wine with a strongly toasty bitter character. Happily, the fruit is as concentrated as the wood with blackberry and black-plum flavors that will come through strongly. It is going to be a serious and impressive wine, firmly structured and rich. Drink from 2020.
With vineyards located in the small range of mountains known as the Alpilles (little Alps), this wine comes from a beautiful organic estate. The wine, with its full range of Provence grapes in the blend, is packed with red fruits. It has a tight texture that points up the fruitiness. Drink this finely structured wine now.
Wood smoke and black pepper aromas start this full-bodied wine out with a bang. Lively, spicy blackberry and black cherry flavors contribute richness on the palate, accented with toasty, savory, meaty overtones. Add its moderate tannins, and the overall effect is a generous, complex and interesting wine.
Mild comfortable aromas of burnt orange and spiced pumpkin lead to a tight, focused palate of moderate weight. Dry melon and peach aromas are on the money, while this finishes clean as polished glass, with a touch of spice.
Ripe grapy aromas are more chunky than mammoth. Saturated and muscular on the palate, this tastes of roasted salty blackberry, while the finish is full and meaty in both flavor and texture. Drink this stout full-bodied Malbec through 2022.
Oaky aromas of maple, blackberry and chimney grit set up a raw tannic palate. This tastes toasty and oaky, but with enough black-fruit flavor to support all that wood. Mild herb and spice flavors mix with tea and berry notes on the finish of this off-vintage Tempranillo. Drink through 2022.
Ripe blackberry and cassis aromas are toasty at first, then charred as this breathes. A big grabby palate is muscled up but welcoming. Toasty blackberry and cassis flavors remain charred on a loaded lengthy finish. This is Malbec and Petit Verdot fermented and aged together. Drink through 2022.
From a five-acre benchland vineyard, this elegant red is sharp with acidity and a full-sized tannic grip that softens in the glass. Oak-derived flavors blanket its black cherry fruit, with distinct leather and black pepper accents.
Joseph Jewell's 2014s from remote Humboldt County are dazzling. The color off this wine is on the light side, and so are the raspberry, tea leaf and cinnamon flavors, but they make for a pleasant, harmonious combination. Medium body, vibrant acidity and firm but light tannins add to its appetizing character.
Made from organic grapes, this estate wine from the high-altitude property is crisp and tightly fruity. It boasts great acidity and refreshingly bright red-currant fruitiness. This is ready now.
From a selected parcel in the estate, this organically grown wine is a ripe blend of Cinsault and Grenache. It is crisp and tight with minerality and zesty orange flavors. Dry and lightly structured, it is a fine food-style rosé. Drink from late 2017.
A very pale wine—it's just barely pink. With Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend, it has a fine structured character that gives the wine weight. There are also refreshingly attractive red-berry fruits and a ripe aftertaste. Drink this complex wine from late 2017.
This is the ripest wine in the Béatrice range. With generous red fruits and balanced acidity it has weight and richness alongside the crisp, tangy fruitiness. This is a textured wine with spice and pepper flavors to add complexity to the fruit. Drink the wine from late 2017.
The origins of this estate go back to the 13th century when it was the property of the Knights Templar. The large 400-acre vineyard has produced this fine rich wine, full of ripe red fruits and with a bright herbal edge. It is bone dry, crisp and ready to drink.
The aromas are locked up at present, with notes of barrel spice, clove, herb and brooding dark fruit. The fruit and barrel flavors are concentrated and tightly wound. The oak is predominant at present. Give it some time in the cellar to strut its stuff. Best after 2022.
For this medium-sweet wine, the Grassa family has chosen one of the Southwest's great grape varieties. The Gros Manseng easily makes this style: fruity and with a fine balance between sweetness and crisp acidity. This is a young wine, named after the singing thrush (grive) in the vines. It's still developing and will be better from 2018.
This is among the best deals out of Santa Barbara County each vintage. A blend of 47% Grenache, 26% Mourvèdre, 15% Cinsault and 12% Counoise, it offers rose petal, anise, lilac and lavender on the nose. There's an elegant lightness on the palate, where vibrant wild raspberry, red plum and potpourri spice flavors shine.
A restrained hint of peach plays on the nose of this wine. The palate comes in with a little spritz and lots of savory, yeasty spice. White pepper accents lemon and pear peel flavors on the streamlined palate. The finish is lemony and fresh.
This fresh, crunchy red shows ripe but balanced cherry notes. The nose is still restrained, but the palate delivers juicy, enlivening freshness with a pleasant grip. A fresh finish makes it very moreish.
A chocolaty frame wraps around the tightly wound cherry-fruit core. There are delicious seams of coffee, vanilla and caramel, along with notes of tea and tobacco. It's fully accessible and intriguingly complex.
This elegant wine combines subtle nutmeg and cardamom aromas with crisp apple, bosc pear and mild vanilla-bean flavors. Its firm texture and lingering finish bring everything into balance, with no single element overpowering the others, making it a pleasure to sip.
This wine's restrained nose just hints at blueberry and cinnamon. The palate comes in with freshness, verve and balance. Crunchy red cherry fruit is at the core, balanced by freshness and a taut structure. An elegant, ripe, medium-bodied red.
Evoking green grape, peach, honeysuckle and ripe melon, this Muscat's aromatic profile is as enticing as ever, all wrapped in a slender, absolutely dry and light-footed package. Full of rich flavor without the attendant weight, it embodies the scent and joy of summer and finishes on a refreshing note of zesty lemon.
This fresh and fruity wine opens with aromas of lychee, white fragrant flowers, exotic fruit and beeswax. The fresh palate offers pineapple, white peach, melon, lemon peel and Alpine herbs.
White rose petals and lychee aromas take center stage in this medium-bodied wine. They carry over to the palate alongside ripe exotic fruit and clove. It's slightly sweet with a silky texture and good weight.
The 2012 vintage brings rich fruit flavors to this estate bottling, with a core of cherries and streaks of kale and espresso. The tannins are ripe and sufficient, though the herbal elements may soften a bit with further bottle age.
A classic vinification in tank and barrel has produced a ripe, full-bodied wine. It has ripe cherry and dark plum fruits; layers of wood-aging flavors give a complete, dense and concentrated wine. It will age, drink until 2020.
This unoaked, 100% Grenache rosé is rich in orange, cherry, apricot and vanilla flavors. Crisp in acidity, it has a clean, vibrant mouthfeel. It's lovely to drink now with a wide variety of fare, from fried chicken to Thai food and tuna tartare.
It discloses a refined version of the variety's classic aromas of white roses, lychee and grapefruit, which all carry over to the palate. The juicy fruit is accented with light notes of black pepper, candied ginger and clove that add depth.
Dusty mineral and dried herb notes lend a savory tone to this elegant semisweet Riesling. The palate is intensely fruity, with ripe nectarine and tangerine flavors. It finishes moderately long, with a wet-stone minerality.
Fragrances of apple, pear and citrus carry over to the palate, along with pineapple and banana sensations. It has a fine, persistent perlage and a bone-dry finish.
A darker, quite savory expression of Black Kite's entire vineyard site in the Deep End of Anderson Valley, this Pinot imparts a touch of cardamom spice and high acidity, with a dryness to the finish that gets a lift from that acid at the end.
Very elegant, it opens with refined aromas of rose petals, lychee and a hint of juicy citrus fruit. The full-bodied palate delivers ripe pink grapefruit and steely mineral notes accented with a spicy note of white pepper.
Raspberry jam, orange peel and sweet oak flavors mark this Pinot Noir. It's very dry, acidic and tannic, not showing much of interest now, but the complexity suggests limited ageability. Try after 2017.
Structured but elegant, it discloses delicate aromas of Spanish broom and Granny Smith apple. The savory, creamy palate delivers juicy Bartlett pear, citrus, nectarine and melon brightened by crisp acidity.
The Loureiro grape is the signature grape of the Lima valley where the Paçao Padreiro is situated. This wine brings out the lime and citrus character of the grape along with its riper orange and peach fruit. It is rich, full and ready to drink.
A fine, smooth, wood-aged wine that already shows good balance between creamy toast and fresh, citrus and white fruits. It is cut-through with youthful acidity and a crisp structure, promising aging. Drink from 2016.
A big, ripe, still very young wine with black fruits that are right up front. It's jammy and juicy, with almost as much fruit as tannin. There is some aging potential, with the underlying dryness of the structure, but the wine is mostly about ripe fruitiness. Drink from 2017.
This is a mineral, textured wine that has fine tannins and balanced ripe black fruits. It's dry, although with an undertow of richness, acidity and weight. It could age, so wait until 2017.
With attractive mint aromas, this polished wine balances structure and fruit. New wood shows through but it doesn't dominate the black fruits that give weight and ripeness. It shows the typical juiciness of the vintage. Drink from 2017.
Chewy tannins make this Pinot Noir feel hard in the mouth. On the plus side is a dense core of raspberries and cherries, as well as a rich appliqué of smoky oak. Try aging it until 2017 to let it mellow.
With its honeyed aromas, this is a warm and rich wine. It has some ripe, buttery flavors alongside more fruity apples and pears. It is smoothly textured, feeling ripe and ready to drink by 2015.
With rich tropical fruits and a ripe, opulent feel, this is a full-bodied wine. It has weight, layers of toast and apricot and peach flavors. Soft and round, it could be drunk now, although it would be best to wait until 2015.
Ripe and juicy, this is already an attractive wine. It does have a tannic structure for aging, but the bright red fruits, touches of cherry and layers of acidity are the stand outs. So drink this wine from 2015 or keep until 2020.
This is a ripe wine, full of apple and apricot fruit with a strong citrus line. A touch of minerality adds tangy texture and gives this rich wine plenty of life and freshness. Drink from 2015.
Brick dust, tomato paste, oregano and basil aromas control the nose on this Cabernet Sauvignon-led blend. The palate is narrow in feel, while flavors of roasted berry, vanilla, mocha and burnt caramel finish creamy and warm, with good texture and modest complexity.
Saline, lime, grass, bell pepper and green bean aromas swirl around the bouquet on this fresh, coastal SB. This feels round yet crisp, with modest acidic cut and flavors or orange, passion fruit and minerals. Finishing flavors are similar, with a hint of green herb.
Ed Sbragia brings his penchant for huge wines to Chardonnay. This '10 is strong and intense in tropical fruits, peaches, buttered toast and vanilla, and while it's balanced and flashy, it will dominate almost any food you pair it with.
For a (relatively) mass production Oregon Pinot, this offers excellent flavors and comparatively good value. A seductive nose leads into a plush palate mixing berries, cola, clean earth and rock. It's textural and balanced, with enough complexity to keep you coming back to the glass.
Tough tannins and mouthwatering acidity frame the deeply intense black currant flavors of this dry, young Malbec. It seems perfectly designed for pairing with steak. Drink now–2020.
It opens with aromas of beeswax, acacia flower and lightly toasted oak. The smooth, structured palate offers lemon drop, white peach, papaya and a subtle note of vanilla and spice.
Made from the Turbiana grape, this dessert wine conveys aromas of apricot, mineral, toasted breadcrumbs and vanilla. The rich palate delivers ripe but restrained yellow peach, honey, roasted almond, and candied ginger alongside fresh acidity that gives this a clean finish.
This wine shows more character and finesse than most other Italian whites in this price range. Subtle aromas of apples, peach and mineral carry over to the bright, savory palate along with citrus notes and crisp acidity. It has nice length and leaves the mouth feeling clean and fresh.
This wine is firm and structured, with complex tannins and dark black-fruit flavors. Under the tannins, juicy fruit with considerable acidity gives signs of great potential. The aftertaste again comes back to the structure. Drink from 2019.
Much care goes into this blend, which was fermented both in neutral wood and in stainless steel. Just 10% went through malolactic. It's a light, clean, well-defined effort, offering accents of salad greens, celery and lemon verbena around crisp apple fruit flavors.
Vines from high up in the vineyard produce this cool, fresh wine. It has bright acidity along with intense grapefruit and lemon fruits. The wine is tangy with a strong texture. Drink from 2018.
Citrus, Mediterranean herb and cut grass aromas lead the way. The crisp palate offers Bartlett pear, unripe apricot and grapefruit alongside tangy acidity. A saline note backs up the succulent finish.
Grapefruit, lemon and star anise aromas lead this refined but friendly wine. On the palate, lush, rounded flavors of melon and tropical fruit are supported by brisk acidity. Great combination with richer poultry or pork dishes.
Ripe yellow apple and yellow plum notes make for an appetizing nose. The palate is equally fresh and full fruited, sporting sassy, defining freshness that makes it mouthwatering and appetizing.
Aromas of Spanish broom, cherry blossom and a hint of woodland berry lead the way on this delicately hued rosato. Made with Nerello Mascalese, the vibrant palate doles out ripe red cherry, crushed strawberry, nectarine zest and a mineral note. A touch of white almond closes the finish.
Powerful fruit aromas and flavors send this full-bodied wine into the stratosphere of ripeness without interference from oak or too much acidity or any overtly tannic texture. It's all juicy and good in a high-octane style.
Like a well-made café latte, this wine balances the dry and restrained elements against creamy, mocha nuances that round out the texture and bring an almost sweet, jammy taste to the finish. Just substitute rich blackberry for coffee flavors to make the analogy work.
Struck flint and smoke lend shade to exuberant pineapple, mango and citrus flavors in this sprightly, honey-kissed Auslese. It's an approachable but elegant wine invigorated by whiffs of fresh green herbs and a touch of bitter pollen on the finish. A fantastic bargain find.
This wine is powerful enough to serve with wild boar carpaccio, if there is such a thing, or with blue cheese like a Port. The color is unusually dark and opaque, a stark black with a faintly purple rim. It smells spicy and tastes very concentrated, like blackberry jam, wood smoke and black pepper. The texture is almost thick and drenched with fine tannins while the body is quite full as well.
Woody fruits of elderberries and wild blackberries meet with toasted sage and scents of wildfire on this blend of 76% Grenache, 14% Syrah and 10% Mourvèdre. The palate blends baked cherries and other cooked dark fruit with oregano, thyme and an array of dried Mediterranean herbs.
A terrific value in sparkling wine, this slightly copper-tinged bubbly features classy aromas of dried thyme, citrus and apple. On the light-bodied palate, there's a hint of creaminess and the merest suggestion of strawberry, although apple and citrus dominate. A great option for summer entertaining.
Intricate aromas and spicy, complex flavors make this medium-bodied wine an adventure to drink. It smells like cherries and cloves and wood smoke, tastes nicely ripe but dry, and has an appetizing, tannic grip in the texture.
Earthy scents of scorched earth, underbrush, licorice and dark berry emerge in the glass. The firm palate offers tastes of black raspberry, sage, toast, oak and espresso alongside assertive tannins that leave a drying finish.
Snappy cool-coast aromas of wet stones and green fruits are pungent but not over-the-top aggressive. This is friendly on the palate, with moderate acidity. Flavors of green apple, lime and scallion finish mild and clean. Drink during 2016.
This aged 100% Traminer has aromas of yellow peach, canned apricots and caramel. It is soft on entry into the mouth and has flavors of peach pie and caramelized apples.
This high-alcohol, full-bodied wine made from a grape variety known for its very dark juice, is definitely deep in color, generous and ripe in flavor, firm and tannic in texture but not at all harsh. It gushes with blackberry, boysenberry and cranberry flavors, coats the mouth with fine tannins and lingers on the finish.
This luminous white offers delicate scents suggesting crushed rock, pear and a whiff of botanical herb. The taut, vibrant palate recalls Granny Smith apple, nectarine and mineral set against a backbone of firm acidity.
Aromas of petrol and tropical fruits are pithy and a touch bitter, but are clearly those of Riesling. A crisp, acid-ripped palate runs long, with lime, lychee and stony flavors. A tangy, citric finish shows modest pithy bitterness along the way.
Dusty aromas blend with cool-climate notes of bell pepper and lime on this racy, green-leaning SB. Flavors of wet stones, lime and salt are crisp, while this finishes with a bell-pepper flavor and zesty acidity. This was made for raw oysters or ceviche.
Violets, olallieberries and dark tobacco leaves arise on the nose of this great-deal wine by vineyard manager Erik Mallea. It's relatively easy to sip, without intrusive tannins, offering black cherries, fudge richness and the tang of black plum skins.
This wine is tight and well-structured, emphasizing a good, gripping texture and firm tannins while tasty berry flavors lurk beneath. It's not something to sip at a party, but a gutsy dinner wine to pour with osso buco or mushroom risotto.
This offers aromas suggesting mature apple, citrus, hazelnut and a whiff of dried herb. The rich, full-bodied palate doles out candied nectarine zest and ripe pear while a mineral note lifts the finish.
Aromas of hazelnut nut, smoke and dried chamomile flower slowly come together. On the racy palate, a mineral vein underscores yellow apple, lime and dried sage while a bitter almond note wraps up the finish.
With aromas and flavors like wild berries and black pepper, this full-bodied wine offers plenty of good fruitiness but also savory touches that lend complexity. Its smooth texture and easy drinkability make it a pleasure to sip.
Fried banana, struck match, smoked mozzarella and seared lemon show on the nose of this bottling from a winery along the mountaintop road that cuts through the appellation. Citrus, apple and smoked stone-fruit flavors trend toward vanilla on the long finish.
A well-balanced and focused wine, this is not big in structure but has tasty fruit flavors, a good crisp mouthfeel and moderate tannins for grip. The wine won't soon get tiring, and will make a good, versatile pairing with food.
While showing a bit tight and closed off, this brisk off-dry Riesling features fresh, tart peach and lemon flavors. It's refreshingly mineral with a honed, steely finish that lingers.
Pure varietal and estate grown, this opens with pretty fruit flavors of cherry and red plum. Aging in one-quarter new French oak adds a pleasing toasty note, along with a hint of dark chocolate.
Pineapple, grapefruit, and apricot show brightly on the nose and palate. Simultaneously refreshing and sophisticated on the palate, this wine has a crisp, lingering finish laced with flavors of almond blossom.
This is the product of two childhood friends, both of whom grew up in the wine business in Napa Valley. Taken, if this wine is any indication, aims to offer great Napa Valley wine at affordable prices. This Cabernet-Merlot blend is smooth in juicy red and blue fruit and completely silky tannins, completely satisfying for all kinds of scenarios.
Bright and fragrant, this luminous wine opens with aromas of rose, violet and crushed raspberry. The juicy palate delivers mouthfuls of sour cherry and cinnamon alongside fresh acidity and supple tannins that give a silky texture.
Red apple aromas form the core with pear and yellow melon on the fringes of this stainless steel Chardonnay from Lompoc's Kenneth “Joey” Gummere. The tart green apple and pear skin acidity is expected, but it retains a full body—a prime example of a stainless Chard that's sleek but not overly austere.
A wonderfully aromatic wine that's bone dry, fresh and textured. A steely edge gives a mineral, tight character that emphasizes the youth of the wine. With a dominance of orange and lemon zest, plus juicy acidity, the wine does need a year or two; drink after 2016.
Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot combine harmoniously in this concentrated, structured and brooding red wine. It's wrapped in black fruit, black tea and herb tones, with a little clove flirting above the fray. The tannins are dry.
Invigorating and frothy, this opens with aromas of woodland berries and violets. The savory palate offers mouthfuls of wild cherry, strawberry and clove alongside bright acidity and small, persistent bubbles. Chill this down for a crisp and refreshing summer red.
Dark black in color and intensity, Buckeye is from a coolish high-elevation site on Howell Mountain that often is the winery's last pick. In 2011 the fruit must have held on for a while, the components herbal and forest-y, the finish suggestive of leather.
Hand-sorting and 18 months of aging is the key here. This 80% Merlot blend with 15% Cabernet Sauvignon and 5% Cabernet Franc offers a generously proportioned balance of tannins and black fruits. It has full-bodied character, packed with berry fruits and rich acidity. With all these elements, it will develop well. Drink from 2017.
Structured and fruity, this 25-acre vineyard of Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc has produced a blend that is solid and with a good future. It has black fruits and firm tannins along with well-judged wood aging (six to eight months). It is ripe, with attractive juicy flavors and spice. Drink from 2017.
The deep, brooding nose blends dark purple fruit with black licorice and Chinese black pepper sauce. Sage bark and anise contribute herbal tones to the palate—likely thanks to the inclusion of 14% Merlot and 11% Cabernet Franc—and blackberries rule the fruit profile.
This is a solid wine with herbal, minty aromas and an opulent structure. Showing power and complexity, the rich body is full of juicy blackberry notes, with striations of acidity. Drink this powerful wine after 2017.
From young vines, this wine offers up pretty scents of rose petals and lightly peppery strawberries. Just 5% Mourvèdre was included, but its presence brings a dash of extra spice and herb.
Sour fruits, tobacco pipe resin and toasted coconut combine for a funky but pleasing nose on this blend from Core Wine Co. The flavors are leathery with plum jam, and vibrant acidity runs from front to back.
Produced in the Vallée Noble sub-region in Soultzmatt, this is ripe and powerfully rich. It is strongly perfumed, full of white fruit and very floral in character. A thread of minerality runs through this still-young wine giving structure. Drink from 2017.
This is pure Cabernet Sauvignon from the Stillwater vineyard, ripe and loaded with dark fruits. There's a strong element of char, smoke and roasted espresso running through the finish. Tannins are silky, but the flavors are right on the edge of burnt. Drink this with a juicy, charcoal-grilled steak and it will hit the bulls-eye.
Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas produces this label with her father and winemaker Joey Tensley, whose handiwork unleashes aromas of white pepper, black cherry, a cornucopia of dark berries and earthy minerality. Bright acidity on the palate partners with blackberry soda flavors, quite racy for the variety.
Ripe, soft and very drinkable, this has a generous structure that cushions the tannins with rounded black fruits. The acidity and the warm, generous character of the 80% Merlot and 20% Cabernet Franc blend net a fine representation of the fruity 2012s. This is Bordeaux consultant Stéphane Derenoncourt's home turf. Wooden fermenters and 16 months in barrel (40% new) necessitate time, so drink from 2016.
While it is closed and tough at present, this is definitely a wine with a future. The hand-harvested 65% Merlot and 35% Cabernet Franc blend has both firm tannins and the promise of ripe fruits, black berries and a rich, opulent character. Spice and new wood (one-third new French oak) are balanced by the fruits and they are brought together by the acidity at the end. Sophie Lavaud, who has owned the 13-acre estate since 2010, is in the process of getting organic certification.
Only two acres of Syrah are planted at the estate vineyard, which is a shame, as this makes you wish for much more. Just in its 4th leaf, the vines are already producing fruit with clear and complex varietal character. Bacon fat, smoke, licorice and a floral lift all come through on the nose. These flavors follow to a medium-bodied palate with proportionate structure and some persistence through the finish.
Whole berry fermented and aged seven months in neutral oak, it shows appealing notes of dried herbs, raspberry and cherry. The palate is fruit focused with a abundant sweet raspberry flavors that linger on the finish.
From the rocky Stagecoach Vineyard atop Atlas Peak, this Cabernet is hearty in tannins and built to age through 2020, the dense black berry and cherry fruit flavors needing time to mature. For now, the wine's character is all savory and leathery, with tight tannins.
Delicate sprays of cherry blossom and raspberry waft from nose to finish on this salmon-pink blend of traditional Champagne grape varieties. Zesty lemonade acidity is lively on the palate, leading to a long, softly foamed finish.
Bright bubblegum, chilled watermelon and strawberry-and-cream aromas weave into a beautiful bouquet on this salmon-colored wine. The flavors are warm and dry but really flavorful, with red apples and papaya fruit perked up with a dash of lime juice.
Full-bodied and flavorful, this four vineyard cuvée may be characterized as buttered popcorn meets golden apple and toasted nuts. You can ride with that posse all the way through the medium-length, well-balanced and clean finish.
Intensely perfumed, this wine is also structured and fresh. Combining these elements gives a dense wine, firmly textured and with a dry core. Acidity gives the natural richness lift. It's meant for aging, drink from 2017.
This is an aromatic dazzler, with notes of herb, apricot, orange peel and dried flowers. It drinks off dry, with rich, mineral stone-fruit flavors and balanced acidity. Pair with curried shrimp.
A year in the barrel has given this powerful wine structured, yet polished tannins. While still young, it is powered by ripe red berry notes and driving juicy acidity. It's a wine for further aging, so drink from 2016.
Though reserved in the nose, this wine from a vineyard to the west of the Sta. Rita Hills already presents a bit of aromatic age, with honey, almond and dried apricot. It's lean, bright and flinty once sipped, with gravel, tangerine pith and chamomile, proving to be a refreshing sipper that never tires. Drink now.
One of the rare vineyards which can produce Grand Cru Sylvaner, Zotzenberg's chalk soil gives a mineral while juicy and fresh wine. The lightest hint of spice gives the wine some weight, and the ripe, fruity apples and creamed pear are already delicious. Not for aging.
Aromas of black cherry and a hint of height-of-summer farmstead prep the palate for flavors of blackberry, black cherry, roasted meat, sage, and bell pepper. There is a nice combination of fruit and savory flavors, and the persistent finish offers lingering notes of fruits of the wood and roasted meat. Mevushal.
This is a balanced wine that has attractive citrus flavors, riper peach and pineapple and a light apricot perfume from the Viognier in the blend. It is rich while having plenty of freshness. Drink from late 2016.
Mature dark-skinned fruit, aniseed and aromatic herb aromas play in the glass. On the firm palate, fine-grained tannins support bright red cherry, mint, rosemary and toast. Drink after 2019.
Aromas of woodland berry, toast, clove and chopped herb emerge in the glass. The palate is still rather closed, eventually giving up raw red berry, coconut, espresso, oak and grilled sage alongside tightly wound, astringent tannins. Give this a few more years to open up. Drink 2018–2024.
Scents of pressed violet, mature dark-skinned fruit and a balsamic note of camphor slowly take shape. The forward palate offers dried black cherry, licorice and clove alongside brooding, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2018–2028.
A light mauve in color, this Pinot Noir-based wine shows boisterous plum fruit, macerated strawberries and a hint of clove on the ripe nose, making it more entrée-ready than apéritif-aimed. The palate offers strawberry and bubble-gum notes deftly hidden behind a veil of sour cherry and plum-skin tartness.
This is a classic style of Cabernet that should improve with age. It smells like pencil shavings, tobacco and cedar, and tastes like dark chocolate and black cherry, while feeling very firm on the palate. It has fine-grained tannins, and a lingering dark chocolate and cherry finish. It will be best after 2018.
Black olive, boysenberry, graphite and cracked pepper season up a slightly gamy nose on this bottling from a popular Los Alamos vineyard. The flavors are a study of blackness, with peppercorns, asphalt and deep purple fruits that are both dark and tart, all framed by a boisterous acidity.
Shocks of ripe rich yellow peach and pineapple revitalize the palate of this animated off-dry Riesling. Simultaneously bracing and sun-drenched, it's a straightforward yet delectably juicy treat. Enjoy now while young.
A tight nose of blackberry and mint smooths the way for flavors of blackberry and pencil lead with a light dose of mint. There is a nice balance of acidity and tannins, with fruit lingering on the palate after the soft finish.
Tropical with notes of gingerbread and vanilla, this wine tastes full bodied despite its medium level of alcohol. It offers a reduced note on the finish, anchored otherwise in sweet toffee.
Crisp minerally aromas of cherry and blackberry come with toasty spicy accents. This is a tightly built full-bodied Cab with lightly herbal, moderately oaky and saucy flavors of berry and plum. A dry, spicy finish provides for a strong ending.
Strong blackberry aromas come with hints of wood smoke, graphite and minerality. On the palate, it is high in acidity and a touch scouring, but also fresh and lively. Common blackberry and toasty oak flavors end fresh and crisp, but short.
Forward and full-bodied, this opens with aromas of mature dark fruit, grilled herb, toast, spirits and a balsamic note. On the warm palate, oak and licorice provide the backdrop to black cherry marinated in spirits alongside firm tannins. The heat of alcohol closes the finish.
Fresh scents of rose petal, iris, aromatic herb and woodland berry float out of the glass. The palate offers raw red cherry, anise and dried sage alongside bracing tannins and nervous acidity. Drink 2018–2028.
Slightly muted aromatically and on the palate, this sports clean and fresh cherry fruit, with a pleasing suggestion of minerality. The midpalate feels a bit hollow.
Baking spice, dried flower, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of coconut lead the nose on this straightforward Barolo. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, toast and vanilla alongside firm, tightly knit tannins.
Rather reserved in aromas for a dessert wine, this allows blackberry, black pepper and mineral notes to emerge with time. The palate is lightly sweet, with ripe blackberry and blueberry-jam flavors, made interesting with a pencil-lead minerality throughout.
Sun-ripened mango and pineapple flavors lend a lavish, tropical feel to this off-dry Riesling. At the same time, there's a resolute core of acidity that gives it balance and grace. It's concentrated and fruity but maintains vitality and length.
Brisk and bright, this delicately framed Pinot Noir offers both elegance and thirst-quenching quaffability. It's fresh and primary, bursting of raspberry and blossom, but finishes suprisingly long with a murmur of feathery tannin. Drink now.
Papaya and stone-fruit aromas are fleshy and a touch green and grassy, giving way to dustiness upon airing. This feels spritzy and good, with a full complement of golden apple, white grape and green plum flavors. Solid, stony and minerally on the finish, with a hint of tropical fruit flavor.
There's a lot of slate minerality on the nose of this bottling, alongside bright and fresh boysenberry fruit and a pine-needle character. The palate is tart with plum skin and grippy tannins, well balanced and also showing just the right amount of barnyard funk.
Fresh cherry and plum aromas are a bit scratchy but alert. This feels firm, with bright acidity creating a raw sense on the palate. Plum, berry and a pinch of saltiness make for an authentic flavor profile, while this finishes long and steady. Drink through 2018.
This linear red offers savory fruit flavors of ripe wild cherry, juicy strawberry, toast, white pepper and a hint of grilled herb. Fine-grained, drying tannins provide support. Drink after 2018.
Smoked beef, tart and tangy boysenberry jelly, black rocks and a cigar-box scent power the nose of this wine from an award-winning vineyard. The palate offers ample juicy tang along with chewy tannins, with dark chocolate, black cherry, and black olive enlivening the mouth.
This offer aromas of plum jam, Oriental spice, underbrush and a whiff of blue flower. The lively, approachable palate doles out juicy black cherry, blackberry, white pepper and clove alongside vibrant acidity.
Named after a trail in the Grand Canyon, this Napa-made bottling shows Japanese pear and cracked vanilla candy on a complex nose. It offers ample amounts of minerality, from slate to chalk, on the palate, followed by smoked stone fruit in the middle and pencil-lead elements toward the finish.
Rubbery, earthy aromas of berry fruits, plum and mushroom are solid but nondescript. This feels grabby and pinchy, with herbal, leafy, salty flavors that end with loamy plum and prune notes. Overall, this is big and forceful. Drink through 2019.
Rose, violet, wild berry and menthol aromas unfold in the glass. The bracing palate offers dried black cherry, licorice and clove alongside assertive, close-grained tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish. Drink after 2020.
The old vines here do give some concentration. More importantly, they give a great swathe of ripe fruit that is so crisp and refreshing. Lemon and the lightest texture are lifted by intense acidity and a lively, fresh aftertaste. This wine is ready to drink.
Coconut and golden apple, hazelnut and pastry crust notes mark the nose. Light to medium in body, the palate feels taut and linear, with a slightly raspy bead. It's aged for 22 months in barrels prior to undergoing secondary fermentation.
The wine is soft, a gentle meander through the flavors of Sauvignon Blanc without any shocks. It has an attractive, rounded texture, with shots of acidity that complement the apple skin and pear flavors. Drink now.
Bitter cherries and a dry core are the two components of this wine. Young, cool fruit comes through the edgy tannic structure. It is still a few months away from maturity, so wait until 2015.
Crusty and showing hard spice notes, this opens with staunch aromas. A narrow, pinching palate offers herbal, green-leaning flavors of currant and briary berry. Oak-based chocolate and herbal flavors finish long and strong.
The Cabernet Sauvignon grape really comes through on this rosé from Paso Robles pioneer Justin. There is strawberry shortcake at first, but the Cab's capacin-led aromas of green bell pepper are prominent. The pepper carries through to the palate, in a very intriguing, tasty way, offering balance between berry fruit and green bitterness.
Light and bone-dry, this is crisp, tight and full of lemon and green apple flavors. It's fruity, textured and ready to drink.
This is a rich and soft Sauvignon, full of ripe fruits that are heading in a tropical direction. Acidity cuts easily through the yellow fruit flavors and hint of herbaceousness. It's ready to drink now.
Aromas of coconut, vanilla and toasted oak carry over to the palate alongside fig, espresso and astringent tannins. It's already evolved and lacks vibrancy and fruit richness.
This opens with aromas of underbrush, leather, oak and crushed black cherry. The palate shows predominantly oak sensations including coffee, vanilla and espresso alongside notes of prune, but it lacks fruit richness. Astringent tannins leave the mouth feeling dried out.
In this lemon-scented wine, flavors range easily from herbaceous to pears with a touch of grapefruit thrown in. It's an attractive, ready-to-drink, fruity wine.
Plummy, soft and supple, this 100% Merlot dances in bright black cherry fruit and vanilla. Juicy on the palate and food-friendly, it finishes dusty and fast.
This is searingly tart, with more lemon juice than pear fruit, and suggestions of unripe pineapple. On the plus side, it's bright, vivid and strongly acidic.
A bold white wine, it smells and tastes like grapefruit, canteloupe and very crisp apples. It has a fresh, acidic texture that cleans the palate and makes the mouth water, but wraps in enough richness for good balance.
Mushroom, tobacco, leather and red berry aromas lead the nose. The palate is still closed, revealing game, barnyard and bitter, green tannins but not a lot of fruit.
Aromas suggest porcini mushroom, espresso and oak. The oak-driven palate offers up roasted coffee bean, vanilla, oak extract, coconut and vanilla alongside astringent wood tannins that leave the mouth feeling dried out. The lack of fruit richness gives it a raw quality.
Graham cracker and lemon aromas weave into the brioche and porcini undertones. Graceful in weight, this bears a frothy bead that lends the palate tension. Aged on lees for 36 months.
Aromas of underbrush, espresso and toasted oak carry over to the palate along with raw red berry. But there's not enough fruit richness to stand up to the astringent tannins and racy acidity.
Lovely and aromatic, it's made in large enough quantities to be easily found. Lemon curd and orange blossom pop out first, followed by a soft, minerally midpalate and an intense finish of citrus. A good white to stock up on for a myriad of occasions.
Apple aromas and flavors characterize this medium-bodied wine. It tastes concentrated, focused, bracing and fresh. The texture is lean and crisp, with enough body to add some richness on the finish.
Almost like a salad in your glass, this fresh-tasting, dry white wine smells like sugar snap peas and just-picked greens. It tastes snappy and crisp with parsley and thyme flavors, and has a refreshing texture.
Funky aromas of barnyard eventually burn off to reveal game, animal, rubber, earth and leather. The palate displays porcini mushroom with raw cherry, prune, nutmeg and dried sage. There's not much complexity and it's not an ager so enjoy over the next few years.
This bright Arneis boasts sensations of tart green apple, white peach and nectarine accented with a note of mineral. Fresh acidity gives it a clean, refreshing finish.
With its honeyed aroma, and off-dry palate, this is a ripe and ready-to-drink wine. A touch of acidity balances the rich peach and mango fruits, giving a wine that's delicious as an apéritif.
It has a vivid ruby color, cherry and raspberry aromas and flavors, and good balance. It's not too fat, but medium bodied, with firm tannins that help frame the ripe fruit. It adds up to an elegant style.
Brambly soft vanilla marks this wine that's otherwise bright in blueberry fruit and zesty acidity. Medium in weight, it has an abbreviated finish.
Typical for basic Rioja, this is violet in color, with fresh plum and red berry aromas. The palate comes across kind of hard, tight and candied, with sweet berry fruit flavors that turn bitter on the finish.
Plum and red-berry aromas are clean and fresh. This skips along on the palate, while flavors of wild berry and plum are a touch raw in character and feel. A rubbery finish is fresh and turns mildly bitter once the fruit fades.
There's a spicy cinnamon character to this wine that's otherwise flush in blackberry and chest-pounding ripe fruit and oak.
Fruity and fresh, this is Sauvignon Blanc at its most attractive. It shows a touch of minerality, but the citrus and crisp apple flavors dominate. With its light touch, it will make a fine apéritif wine.
Neutral aromas and a mouthfeel with modest lemony acidity set up pithy citrus flavors and notes of green melon and lychee. The finish on this tropical-tasting wine is creamy and a bit heavy, with lime and green banana flavors. Drink right away.
Ponzi is promoting a multi-clone winemaking approach they label “Clonal Massale.” This single vineyard example co-ferments five Dijon and 22 heritage clones of Pinot Noir—the most extensive in the country, according to the winery. Dark and lengthy, it's a sexy, complex yet subtle wine, with blackberry and black cherry fruit, a touch of soy and ample Asian spices.
From a vineyard along the Laguna Ridge near Green Valley, this wine shines in spicy black cherry, clove and moderate acidity. Full-bodied and juicy, it's balanced and velvety-smooth—a ripe, bold take on the variety that shows surprising elegance and length.
The nose merely hints at tropical riches. The stony palate also holds tightly onto its fruit: it is only zesty citrus that can be divined amidst all the stone. Bright lemon shines above what seems a deep dark core of rocky earth. There is real drive and real energy in that bright, lemony vein that runs right through this dry, serious and almost brooding wine. The finish adds a touch of a more mellow apple note that persists throughout the long finish. Wait for this. Drink 2020–2035.
Just a touch of dried pear and chamomile tisane appear on the shy nose which needs air to open. The palate already has that balm-like concentration of mature Riesling which is joined by a vein of wonderful lemon-zest freshness. Despite the absolute dryness of the palate there is ample, generous and deep-seated fruit: pear, apple and gorgeous tangerine. The finish is clean-cut and resonant. Drink now–2030.
It's nice to see the quality of this wine reach new heights, as it's still relatively affordable within the Henschke context. The blend includes Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Cabernet Franc. The 2013 shows a slightly austere side, an aristocratic reserve, but the flavors are classic. Pencil shavings, mint, cassis and cigar box finish with great drive, length and dusty tannins. Drink 2023–2035.
A classic blend of Cabernet and Shiraz, this is cedary and complex upon opening, easily mixing cassis, plum and blackberry with vanilla and baking spices. On the palate, it's dense and concentrated yet slightly reserved, suggesting rather than screaming its potential. A long, mocha-tinged finish wraps things up, combining dusty tannins with mouthwatering acids. Drink 2020–2030+.
Produced by the winemaking team of Léoville las Cases, this wine comes from a separate part of the estate. The wine, with its dominance of Cabernet Sauvignon, is dense with tannins as well as dark fruit. It is firm, powerful and a very fine wine for long-term aging. Drink from 2024.
Lifted heady notes of Damask rose rise from the glass alongside lemony tang. The palate brims with the same rose petal notes but also holds plenty of spice: sandalwood and ginger, white pepper and the merest touch of vanilla. The palate is concentrated and rounded with gentle sweetness, countered by fresh lemon acidity. The persistence of flavors on the palate is incredible. Serve this either with fruity spicy Asian fare or runny, soft and very ripe cheeses.
The unmistakable yet subtle notes of rose water appear as though they were drizzled over ripe juicy peach flesh. The palate boosts these generous fruit flavors with soft and measured residual sweetness. The medium-dry body is gentle, supple, fluid and generous but punctuated with sprightly, aromatic citrus to strike a harmonious balance. The finish is subtle, clean and perfumed with rose petals. Drink now through 2030.
Sourced from the estate's Paderewski and Catapult vineyards, this blend of 32% Syrah, 25% Grenache, 25% Mourvèdre, 10% Tempranillo and 8% Zinfandel bursts with blackberry, baking spice, violet and Concord grape aromas. Framed by firm but ready tannins, the palate shows blackberry, cola, white pepper and dried lavender flavors.
One of the first producers to work with Bucher Vineyard fruit, this shows familiarity and comfort in its ability to coax black cherry, pomegranate and allspice flavors, wrapping them in a voluptuous mouthfeel. Full-bodied and lushly layered, it's lengthy with a touch of smoke.
This wine is from the Riddle Ranch above Occidental, a cool, coastal village strongly influenced by the Pacific Ocean. Reduced on the nose, it offers brightly woven raspberry and strawberry flavors, rounded by sizable, firm tannins and a midpalate girth that finds relief in rose petal and zesty allspice notes on the finish.
A lovely hue, this is scented with crushed rose petals and raspberries. It's tart, with zippy acidity, and a terrific midpalate lift. The finish resonates with a coating of café crême.
At once powerful and graceful, this delivers alluring aromas and flavors of ripe black cherry, raspberry compote, grilled herb, licorice and an intriguing tarry note. Fresh acidity and firm, velvety tannins provide balance and structure, while a hint of pipe tobacco closes the lingering finish. Drink 2020–2032.
Intense baked plum and black cherry aromas meet with vanilla, caramel and sagebrush on the nose of this bottling from one of the appellation's most coveted vineyards. The tangy, energetic and grippy palate offers crushed cranberry flavors, more black plum, gingerbread and exotic Indian spice on the finish.
The second release of this Oregon Pinot project from Walla Walla's Jon Meuret (Maison Bleue) is irresistible. A three-clone blend from a top Columbia Gorge vineyard, it's explosively aromatic, with a strong whiff of pipe tobacco that Meuret believes is a vineyard marker. Those powerful aromatics push into a dense core of strawberry-cherry fruit, enhanced by oak notes. Delicious now, this has the structure and power to cellar well. Drink now through 2028.
Hints of sultana and cooked quince reach the nose suggesting richness. The palate, however, responds with streamlined freshness, ripe fruit and depth and gives us concentration rather than richness. Tangy citrus zest frames notions of ripe apple and quince while shadows of dried fruit still haunt aromatically. The finish is clean, totally satisfying and dry. This is soaring but hearty stuff.
Wild berry, forest floor, chopped herb and a balsamic note are some of the aromas you'll find in this bright, elegant red. The vibrant, medium-bodied palate offers crushed raspberry, red cherry and baking spice flavors, buttressed by taut, polished tannins and fresh acidity. A blast of orange zest further lifts the finish. Drink 2019–2027.
This is a big wine in its breadth of flavors and structure. Powerful tannins give hints of the wood aging. The ripe black fruit is given a crisp edge by the acidity that is typical of the vintage. The wine will certainly age well. Drink from 2023.
Another Joe Davis wine that's benefited from patience, this bottling offers more mature character than the same vineyard's 2009. Umami touches of soy, shiitake and leather underscore the cherry and raspberry scents on the nose. It has a grippy texture and a subtly presented range of flavors—from dried anise and Christmas spice to elderberry, cranberry and dried plum skin.
From near Olivet Lane and Pellegrini Vineyard—some of the longest planted sites in the appellation—this red is densely packed with spicy, wild black and red fruit, with a soft underbelly of structure. Earthy mushroom and forest pine give it a savory dimension, through soft, silky waves of texture.
This is a fabulous wine, a notch above the three other vineyard-designated Pinots from Black Kite. Black tea, black cherry and herbal aromas blend with focused cherry, rhubarb and cranberry flavors in this full-bodied, complex wine. It's balanced by moderate tannins, giving it both structure and texture, and will drink best after 2020.
This bottling from the family's smallest vineyard is as special as the three-acre site itself, offering intriguing chive blossom aromas on the nose alongside key lime and pungent honeydew. The palate is laser focused and tense with acidity and structure, showing lime pith, pink grapefruit zest and a chalky minerality reminiscent of crushed sea shell on the finish.
Named for Edwards' first grandchild born in this vintage year, this wine is made from fruit sourced from Meredith Estate Vineyard. Velvety smooth and perfumed, it offers piquant pepper and cardamom scents, along with intense rhubarb compote and raspberry flavors. It shows both purpose and quiet power, wrapped in violet and rose.
Fruit from this high-profile vineyard builds a velvety silky seductive wine that impresses immediately. It captures the ephemeral elegance of the grape, in a young wine with well-managed phenolics. The strawberry-centric fruit is lightly dusted with cinnamon, from 15 months in 50% new French oak.
This wine is crisp, floral and pretty in every way. It's classically structured and graceful, with tart apple notes and stony acidity. It allows the fruit to speak softly and subtly, its lower ripeness detracting from niether flavor nor complexity.
This wine is estate-grown and from a single one-acre vineyard, entirely varietal and quite impressive. Soft, integrated tannins and oak are present but behaved, allowing for deeply satisfying layers of black olive, blackberry and bittersweet chocolate to evolve and intermingle on the palate. Big boned, this wine shows balance and complexity.
Ripe blackberry aromas are a touch malty and jammy, with a note of buttered pastry thrown in for good measure. This emphasizes the rich ripe extracted side of Priorat, but balance is not sacrificed. Lush dark toasty black-fruit flavors come with notes of oaky spice and bitter chocolate, while the finish is toasty blackened, deep and chunky. Drink through 2023.
With only 12% new oak and 28% of the fruit coming from the cool Eden Valley, this wine may hold more appeal to lovers of Old World Syrah than any other Torbreck bottling. Pepper, bacon fat and mixed berries mark the nose, while the palate is full, creamy and expansive. The long finish includes enough soft, dusty tannins to suggest cellaring through 2030 as a possibility, although it's delicious now.
A blend of barrels selected from several sites, this is a plush, easy-to-love wine. It's shy on the nose at first, just hinting at wild strawberry and herbal aromas. Soft, with a touch of bitter black tea it fades into a slow finish.
Mature black-skinned fruit, menthol, scorched earth and a whiff of forest floor are some of the aromas you'll find on this firmly structured red. The palate offers mature black cherry, black currant and licorice accompanied by a tannic backbone. Drink through 2018.
Aromas of mature cherry, fleshy strawberry and a whiff of dark spice lead the way on this blend of 85% Sangiovese, 10% Merlot and 5% Canaiolo. On the firm palate, notes of leather, anise, coffee and grilled herb accent the black cherry core. Drink through 2019.
Tan in color and in the early stages of fading, this smells reserved, with aromas of turpentine, popcorn and bread. Rubbery and slightly pinched in feel, this tastes briny, nutty and melony, with plenty of oak in support. A lighlty oaked finish is short in length and complexity. Drink now.
Chocolate, cherries and baking spices make up the flavors of this layered and tasty wine. The color is dark, the texture is nicely astringent due to assertive tannins, and it conveys a sense of something held in reserve.
Plump and round in the mouth, with clean, fresh flavors of pear and pineapple. This year, the Marsanne is better, although the Roussanne should win friends for its charming fruit.
Aromas of raspberry jam are a bit stretched out and unusual for a Rioja. In the mouth, this is fresh and fruity, but a bit light on substance. Savory red-fruit flavors end comfortably, with a good texture.
Aromas of red berry, sunbaked earth and crushed blue flower lead the nose. The easy-drinking palate offers mature wild cherry, white pepper and anise alongside polished tannins. It's simple but savory. Drink through 2016.
Aromas of mature dark-skinned fruit, sunbaked earth, violet and a whiff of espresso lead the nose. The juicy palate doles out ripe black cherry, anise, clove and a hint of coffee alongside round tannins. Enjoy soon.
Aromas of blackcurrant, spice, menthol, espresso and a whiff of toasted oak lead the nose. The round, chewy palate doles out blackberry jam, licorice, ground black pepper and coffee alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Showing the heat of the vintage, it's evolving quickly so enjoy sooner rather than later.
Espresso, menthol, dried black-skinned fruit and toasted oak aromas come together on this firm red. The hearty palate offers dried black cherry, licorice, powdered sage and coffee alongside assertive tannins. Drink through 2017.
This opens with aromas of mature wild cherry and pressed violet while the straightforward, juicy palate offers fleshy black cherry and a note of ground pepper. It's round and ready, with supple tannins.
A mix of just-ripe fruit flavors and savory accents on a medium-bodied frame make this wine intriguing to taste. It starts with seemingly sweet fruity aromas, but then the flavors turn a bit leaner and more complex.
From the Malibu-based producer, this bottling has a striking label design that matches with the youthful, vivacious pink wine. The punchy nose blends cherry, lime blossom and pink rose petals with yeasty, sourdough-like aromas, while the palate offers iron, maraschino cherry and lime-wedge flavors.
A lush, medium-bodied wine with an extroverted personality, this starts with aromas like butter, vanilla and toasted baguette, then emphasizes ripe pear and yellow-peach flavors. A soft texture and lingering finish completes the picture.
Rubbery cherry and berry aromas feed into a forward, chewy palate with raw, spicy flavors of plum offset by oaky vanilla and some bitterness. A fresh, angular finish is braced by snappy acidity.
Pure purple fruit and flower aromas hit the nose on this straight-ahead bottling, with plum candy, sour cherry and a touch of soy sauce as well. Strong energy and purple fruit show on the palate, along with violets and blueberries, proving floral and fairly tangy.
Light and fresh, this is immediately attractive with its green fruits, spice and hints of almonds. There is also a backdrop of minerality to this still-young wine. Aromatic and crisp, it can be drunk now.
Briny and dark copper-orange in color, this is a weighty wine, though the alcohol level is low. The tannins and leathery texture of the Syrah shine through, checked by tangy citrus and a hit of white pepper.
This is a ripe, apple and green stone-fruit flavored wine, with a light texture that nicely supports the fruitiness. The wine is fresh, juicy and with delicious freshness at the end. Drink now.
This is a soft, fresh while rounded wine. A gentle texture hints at a more tangy character while pushing the apple and spice flavors forward. Attractive now, the wine is ready to drink.
A blend of vines from different soils, this rich, dense wine has concentration as well as steely, tangy fruits. It is still young and nervy, needing time to open out. Drink this wine from 2018.
This is a blend of seven parcels from the higher slopes of the appellation. They give the wine a cool, fresh character, aromatic and steely. It's a crisp wine, with textured citrus and clean acidity. Drink now.
This is a soft, ripe wine, smoothly textured. It has a good balance between the crisp apple and pear flavors and a more mineral texture that gives a bite. It's young, and great to drink now, although it will be even better from late 2016.
Ripe, full bodied and still young, this generous wine is open with its fresh apples and creamy texture that give richness. A touch of toastiness adds to the complexity and potential of the wine. Drink now, although it will be better from the end of 2016.
There's bountiful energy on the sizzling nose of this semisweet bottling, with aromas of baking soda, just-cut limes, lemon rinds and a touch of ripe peach. The palate offers apple syrup and peels, tartness from lemon and lime skins, and richness from flavors of orange water and jasmine.
Aging in big wood barrels has softened the intensity of this wine while leaving the fruitiness intact. It makes for a tangy, mineral-driven wine with a smoky, flinty aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
The buttered popcorn and woodspice aromas are vibrant. The palate is all about texture and feel, with the spice and stone fruit flavors seeming an accent. The finish lingers. For those looking for a bold, buttery style, look no further.
Vines planted on gravel soil line a terrace above the Cher river. This wine with an intensely herbal character is fresh, crisp and packed with fruit. It has some weight, along with a great lift from the aromatic aftertaste. The wine can be drunk now, although it will be better from 2017.
Rich and full in mouth, this has green and apple fruit flavors that are cut with acidity. The tangy texture gives a contrast and balance to the wine. Drink from 2017.
Coming from a classic limestone vineyard, this is tense, structured and tight. It is textured, with spice and tangy acidity giving some complexity to the otherwise fruity wine. Drink from 2017.
This is among the best deals out of Santa Barbara County each vintage. A blend of 47% Grenache, 26% Mourvèdre, 15% Cinsault and 12% Counoise, it offers rose petal, anise, lilac and lavender on the nose. There's an elegant lightness on the palate, where vibrant wild raspberry, red plum and potpourri spice flavors shine.
A restrained hint of peach plays on the nose of this wine. The palate comes in with a little spritz and lots of savory, yeasty spice. White pepper accents lemon and pear peel flavors on the streamlined palate. The finish is lemony and fresh.
This fresh, crunchy red shows ripe but balanced cherry notes. The nose is still restrained, but the palate delivers juicy, enlivening freshness with a pleasant grip. A fresh finish makes it very moreish.
A chocolaty frame wraps around the tightly wound cherry-fruit core. There are delicious seams of coffee, vanilla and caramel, along with notes of tea and tobacco. It's fully accessible and intriguingly complex.
This elegant wine combines subtle nutmeg and cardamom aromas with crisp apple, bosc pear and mild vanilla-bean flavors. Its firm texture and lingering finish bring everything into balance, with no single element overpowering the others, making it a pleasure to sip.
This wine's restrained nose just hints at blueberry and cinnamon. The palate comes in with freshness, verve and balance. Crunchy red cherry fruit is at the core, balanced by freshness and a taut structure. An elegant, ripe, medium-bodied red.
Evoking green grape, peach, honeysuckle and ripe melon, this Muscat's aromatic profile is as enticing as ever, all wrapped in a slender, absolutely dry and light-footed package. Full of rich flavor without the attendant weight, it embodies the scent and joy of summer and finishes on a refreshing note of zesty lemon.
This elegant wine opens with enticing white spring flower, freshly picked orchard fruit and herb aromas. The vibrant palate offers juicy white peach, nectarine and yellow apple flavors, framed by crisp acidity. An almond note graces the dry, refreshing finish.
Cabernet Sauvignon (37%) and Cabernet Franc (34%) make up the majority of this wine, with the balance Merlot (16%), Malbec (8%) and Petit Verdot. The aromas are quite locked up, with light notes of barrel spice, herb and assorted dark fruit. The palate has light tightly coiled fruit flavors. It needs time to reveal its charms. Best after 2021.
This delightful rosé bursts open with ripe watermelon and strawberry scents and flavors. Highlights suggest candied rose petals, and the flavors continue into cherry soda and hints of pink peppercorn. It's a big bold fruity simply fabulous bottle.
This cool-climate bottling from the young producer shows tons of florality and spice, from violet and lilac to white pepper and dried herb, underscored by blueberry and tar aromas. It's light and lithe in body, with elderberry, potpourri and pepper flavors, but the tannic tension is most compelling, clinging to the palate from start to finish.
A delicate floral scent mingles with cinnamon, vanilla and red cherry fruit in this wine. The palate is sprightly, translucent and fresh yet characterised by lots of rich oak spice. Wait for this to integrate. Drink 2019–2023.
Green apple, peardrop and Conference pear shine on the nose of this wine. The streamlined palate clebrates those fresh flavors, highlighting them with extra lemon spritz, a salty, yeasty fringe adding complexity. The finish is lip-smacking, moreish and dry.
An aromatic twist of passion fruit plays on the nose of this dry wine. The slender palate leads with tangerine, lemon and grapefruit peel flavors, oozing verve and focused, zesty citrus notes. It has loads of vigor and provides ideal refreshment.
A few swirls of the glass release alluring smoky flint, hazelnut, citrus and dried Mediterranean herb aromas. That savory mineral quality carries over to the bright, tangy palate, underscoring ripe pear, lemon, apple and thyme honey flavors.
Raspberry coulis flavors are supported by robust oak and tannin in this densely built wine. Dried herb, tart pomegranate and tea notes provide a sultry edge and proof of coastal influence, marrying well with the richness.
Wonderfully tart, fresh red cherry fruit expands on this wine's nose and palate. It's wonderfully poised and pitched just right between generosity and restraint. Its crunchy cherry fruit feels honest and elegant. The finish is lip-smackingly fresh.
Floral aromas greet the nose before exuberant, juicy dark cherry fruit comes into play in this full-bodied red. Tight-grained tannins lend strength and structure beneath a backdrop of cedar and dried herb flavors.
Made from 89% Petit Verdot and 11% Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine opens with chalky, dusty tannin and a leathery mouthfeel. It opens slowly in the glass to reveal currant, blackberry and violet flavors. Powerful and elegant, it does the variety justice.
This is a bit fuller and more textural than many Marlborough Sauvignons, which gives it an extra dimension. The aromas show just enough grassy punch to make them pop, while smooth grapefruit flavors build in intensity on the long finish.
Brawny, toasty aromas prop up a sturdy oaky nose with a familiar dark-berry core. This Malbec is tightly wound, with wiry acidity. Flavors of blackberry, cassis, spiced plum, chocolate and cardamom finish earthy and mellow, with a lingering note of exotic spice. Drink through 2022.
Lime and mineral aromas drive the nose on this fairly full-bodied brut nature from a warm vintage. On the palate, this is balanced, with bubbles absorbed into the wine's fabric. Up-front salty notes are backed by briny apple, nectarine and yeasty flavors, while this is sophisticated and fairly complex on the finish.
Organically grown grapes from one of the top Provence estates have produced this light grey-pink colored wine. It is a delicious fruity confection of bright red berries and tangy acidity. There is an attractive touch of minerality to give the wine structure. Drink now.
This is a ripe beautifully balanced wine. It has the extra richness and density that comes from a vine produced in the close to Monte Sainte-Victoire. Full of raspberry and orange fruits, the wine has a final tangy herbal edge. Drink now.
This wine wears its high alcohol well, appearing light in the glass and delivering loads of chaparral spice, sandalwood, beet, rhubarb and earthy dust scents on the nose. Although light in body, the palate boasts an underlying juiciness, packed with cranberry, thyme and pencil shaving flavors.
Though light in color and body, this wine carries tremendous aromas and flavors, thanks in part to its 5% cofermented Viognier. The nose shows charred beef, crushed elderberry and potpourri scents, while the palate shows tart red currant and cranberry fruit, with smoked beef, white, pepper, rosemary and fennel accents.
Unconventional but outstanding, this wine is an earthy throwback to an earlier era, from its light, brownish color to its dried leaf, rhubarb and wet earth aromas to its lean but complex red cherry, rhubarb and cranberry flavors. Wild yeast and wild bacteria were used for the primary and malolactic fermentations, respectively.
This wine is 45% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Cabernet Franc, 20% Merlot and 5% Petit Verdot. The aromas are almost completely shut down at present, with just hints of barrel spice, herb and dark fruit. The fruit flavors are similarly locked up, backed by lightly grainy tannins. There are good things going on but it needs time to reveal itself. Best after 2022.
The winery produces two outstanding Pinots from estate vineyards planted in 1972. This is big and chewy (as the potent alcohol might suggest) and aging in 50% new French oak puts flavors of toasted coconut and caramel around smooth supple cherry fruit. There's a finishing hint of eucalyptus; all in all, it's a terrific value and a truly original take on Pinot Noir.
Ripe yellow plum pervades the nose of this wine. The palate brings more Grüner Veltliner savoriness, with hints of yeast and herb. Light in body and dry in mouthfeel, it refreshes with a lovely herbal citrus tang on the finish.
Aromas suggest green apple and melon. This wine drinks dry with a lightly spritzy feel but the flavor concentration seems lacking.
This is packed with herbal character, from the aroma through the flavors and the finish. It smells like fresh-cut grass, tastes like snap peas and scallions, and has a bright, almost sharp, citrusy tartness.
Yeasty, bready aromas lack the citric kick and minerality that top Rueda whites deliver in spades. The palate is dilute but slightly creamy, while yeasty flavors are low on fruit and finish with a note of gardenia flower.
This opens with scratchy, slightly dirty aromas of blueberry and blackberry. The palate is heavy and jammy, but also somewhat raw and abrasive. Cherry and plum flavors are basic, while an inoffensive finish falls off quickly.
Initially this smells earthy and rubbery, but with airing it shows roasted dark-berry aromas mixed with horsey leather. The palate is full, tannic and scratchy, with black-fruit flavors, pepper, toast and herbal notes. Toast and coffee flavors are found on a hard, tannic finish. Tasted twice with mixed results.
Chunky, raisiny aromas are heavy. In the mouth, this is big, high on acid and a bit shaky in terms of overall balance. Medicinal cherry and plum flavors finish raisiny and plump, with a shot of tomato thrown in.
Concentrated but one-dimensional, this features aromas of stewed fruit, fig, almond, nail polish and coconut, all of which follow through to the warm, monolithic palate. It's already extremely evolved, and lacks vibrancy and complexity.
The reductive scent of rubber meets with deep blackberry on the nose. The palate proves more interesting, with mocha and espresso notes laid over blackberry fruit, all framed in strong tannins.
This wine from a vineyard 25 miles east of the Monterey Bay shows a slightly reductive character on the nose, with burnt rubber alongside cherry and mint. The palate shows cranberry and pomegranate fruits, with lots of leathery tannins.
The aromas don't seem entirely settled, with notes of char, tire rubber, bacon fat and vanilla accents. The fruit flavors are smoky and sweet, with a slightly astringent feel.
Juicy red cherry and raspberry flavors are layered with toast, cinnamon, vanilla and spice in this ornate yet approachable wine. It's sunny and plush on the midpalate, but grippy tannins mark a tight, brisk finish.
There's a ruddy ripeness to red raspberry and cherry flavors in this delicately framed Merlot. It's crisp with acidity and enticingly spiced, but finishes abruptly.
This offering conveys blueberry, herbs, olive and tire rubber. The flavors are lighter in style, with just a hint of sweetness, trailing toward the finish. This would make an excellent and crowd-pleasing by-the-glass selection.
Aromatically expressive, this conveys cranberry and milk chocolate. It's full of fruit and barrel flavors with a lightly creamy feel.
This 100% varietal brings a fruit-forward profile of candied red currants, cranberry and spice. It has fresh, medium-bodied flavors, with the concentration a bit wanting.
Mango, papaya and vanilla aromas are lightly tropical and chunky. The palate is plump and fair. Flavors of green melon, papaya and mixed tropical fruits finish steady and with a reprise of leesy, yeasty vanilla.
Dusty, scratchy, spicy red-fruit aromas register as feral. This is wiry and medicinal in feel, with spicy black-plum flavors that are brash and oaky. Peppery spice dominates an otherwise hollow finish.
Half fermented in oak with the rest in stainless steel, this wine offers lees, butter and vanilla, with a dry, medium-bodied feel.
This unusual blend made from Verdelho, Pinot Gris and Pinot Blanc grapes is dry, reasonably fruity and smooth in texture. It starts with canteloupe aromas, goes to golden apple flavors and leaves an earthy touch of walnut on the finish.
This is a dark and probably too-tannic wine. A very dry, extracted character gives bitterness more than fruit. It's still young and has the Saint-Estèphe tannins in abundance, although its future with this dryness is uncertain.
Mint and graphite aromas make for a cool nose on this 50/50 Malbec-Cabernet Sauvignon. Rubbery tannins mixed with extracted berry flavors create more noise than poise on the palate. A spicy, herbal, chocolaty finish is punchy and borderline punishing.
Given the diverse clonal make-up of the vines that go in to this Pinot, the aromas are somewhat muted and shy. Earthy, spicy fruit flavors are characterized by baked red raspberry and strawberry notes, with the wine taking on a denseness on the palate and finish.
Packed with fruit, this is a fine, simple Bordeaux. Red fruits leap out of the glass, allied to light tannins. They make for a wine that's ready to drink young and fresh.
Varietal notes of potting soil, flowers and dark cherry partner with licorice and pickling spices. The fruit flavors seem sweet, almost as if carrying some residual sugar, with some mesquite flavors that distract.
While lemony-fresh with a streak of crushed-stone minerality, this medium-bodied white lacks the exuberance and spice expected of Gewürztraminer. It's refreshing and pleasing nonetheless, with a spray of lingering white blossom perfume on the finish.
This wine suggests green, savory herbs along with cherry and currant. It's elegant in style, velvety in feel, and delivers good concentration to the fruit flavors plus barrel notes (20% new French) on the lingering finish. The variety gets lost with the herbal notes taking over, but it still offers enjoyment.
Firm, dry tannins behind this wine give a hard edge that will need time. The wine is powered by its structure, solid and only just fruity. Wait until at least 2017 to allow more fruitiness to come through, although the wine will likely always be tough.
Berry and cassis aromas turn more saucy with airing. This has a sticky mouthfeel with protruding acids, while flavors of plum and citrus finish short. This is good if you're looking for the basics.
Whiffs of clay and fallen leaves lend an earthy tone to this ripe, rich wine. The palate is lush, almost pulpy, with black cherry and plum flavors but brisk acidity and grippy tannins finish taut and tight.
This is a simple, fruity wine without great tannic structure. It has attractive berry fruits and a dry core. With its fresh acidity, it will be ready to drink soon.
This is solidly varietal, with a sleek mix of pear flesh and skin. Some tension created between the phenolic bite and tart acidity carries through into the finish. It suggests that a proper match, with a relatively oily fish perhaps, will bring out its best.
Dominated by the local Duras grape, this spicy and fruity wine has an intriguing blend of juicy acidity and leathery tannins. It gives a wine that could benefit from aging while also being ready to drink now. Give it the benefit of the doubt and wait until 2016.
Apple and pear aromas provide a smooth entry to a round, slightly creamy palate. Grapefruit, green-herb, pear and apple flavors lean toward sweet and ripe, while the finish holds onto just enough acidic zest.
Very deep black plum, smashed red berries, concentrated cola and coffee liqueur aromas entice the nose on this blend of 40% Cabernet Franc, 40% Zinfandel and 20% Grenache. It's very spicy and lively on the palate with an almost biting, explosive acidity. Flavors of espresso and deep red fruits are noticeable.
This has a rather deep red color and a slightly smoky rim. It offers profuse aromas of black cherry and blackberry, medium to full body and a generous texture. It's enjoyable for the fruit flavor, and easy to drink due to the soft texture. The finish is lingering and almost sweet.
You'll taste the 40% new French oak right away, followed by crisp, botanical flavors of lime rind and green apple. It's not a fleshy Chardonnay, instead it's the mineral and botanical flavors that stand out.
Made from Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot, this rosé has a weightiness. It's juicy, bold and dry, with a hue of freshly cut watermelon that follows on the palate, alongside dried cranberry and currant.
Here's a blend of 25% Sangiovese, 25% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Merlot and 25% Syrah that opens with aromas of red currant, bell pepper and roasted coffee beans. The medium-bodied, one-dimensional palate offers dried black cherry, black pepper, espresso and a gamy note alongside moderate tannins. Drink through 2016.
From the tiny vineyard area of Marcillac in the French mountains on the eastern edge of the southwest region, this tight, fruity wine is a breath of fresh air. It is packed with berry fruits as well as tannins showing that it will age. Red fruits burst out at the end. Marcillac's claim to fame is Fer Servidou, the grape that is not related to Cabernet Sauvignon but has similar aroma and taste traits.
This wine combines the best of Chenin Blanc, with its nutty, terroir-driven character, and the round ripeness of Chardonnay. It is fruity and fresh with a smooth texture that is lifted by final acidity.
Forward and chunky, the fruit has the lightness and freshness of black cherry soda. It's smooth and fresh, though somewhat insubstantial, with a creamy finish and a lick of coffee as it fades.
Subdued aromas of black currant, chocolate and a whiff cedar lead the nose of this blend of 30% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Cabernet Franc, 30% Merlot and 10% Petit Verdot. On the palate, notes of grilled bell pepper, soy sauce and game accent a core of dried black cherry. It's simple and a bit rustic, with dusty, drying tannins.
There's quite a bit of green on this nose of this blend of 63% Merlot, 24% Cabernet Franc, 10% Cabernet Sauvingnon, 2% Malbec and 1% Petit Verdot, with grilled jalapeño most prevalent. The palate is not very dense though proves dynamic, showing red cherries and elderberries laced with green peppercorns.
This 100% Syrah offers aromas of mature black currant, charred earth and a whiff of cedar. The palate delivers dried black cherries, clove, ground pepper and powdered sage alongside raspy tannins that leave a drying, astringent finish.
This is a forward, rather light, chocolaty wine. The berry fruit flavors are swathed in chocolate, and a suggestion of citrus keeps a frame around it.
A vivid gold color and spice-rack aromas like nutmeg and cardamom add a different twist to this medium-bodied and rather rich-textured wine. Those are probably characteristics from aging with oak, and they enhance the clean, fresh fruit flavors in a good way.
Aromas of bell pepper, red currant and vanilla come together in the glass along with a gamy note. The dense palate delivers dried black cherries, toasted oak, tobacco and licorice. Tightly wound, astringent tannins dry out the finish.
Aromas of pencil shavings, black currant and cedar lead the nose of this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. The ripe, forward palate delivers dried cherries, green bell pepper and clove alongside assertive, grippy tannins. Drink soon to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Made with 85% Merlot blended with varying amounts of Petit Verdot, Sangiovese and Cabernet Sauvignon, this opens with aromas of truffle, underbrush, baked plum and dark cooking spice. The palate delivers licorice, roasted coffee bean and blueberry extract alongside astringent tannins that dry out the palate. While the tannins are still aggressive, the fruit richness is starting to dry out.
Made entirely with Sangiovese, this fresh wine opens with aromas of black cherry and freshly ground pepper that carry over to the palate along with notes of black raspberry and a hint of orange rind. Racy acidity and supple tannins provide the framework. It's easy-drinking, so enjoy soon.
Milk chocolate and dark plum combine to nice effect in this majority-Merlot, blended with almost 25% Cabernet Sauvignon. Dry, savory and spicy in cinnamon and clove, the wine is substantially dense and thick on the palate.
Zesty cherry aromas are offset by powdery softness and floral hints. This feels solid and correct, with bright acidity. Flavors of red-apple skins and citrus fruits finish direct and clean.
Firm, well-modulated and medium-bodied, this estate-grown wine brings a mix of apple flesh and skin, along with a strong scent of biscuit. and hint of vanilla. Overall it's staunchly varietal, though not especially complex.
Spicy cranberry/raspberry fruit is at the heart of this bright, quaffable and value-priced wine. There's a light dusting of pepper also, but it's the fresh fruit that stands out.
Lime and passion fruit aromas are subtle and appealing. This delivers a fresh, alert palate and crisp, lightly brined flavors of lettuce, apple and cucumber. On the finish, it runs peppery but not overly aggressive.
Woody aromas of sawdust and maple take over a lightly herbal bouquet. Plum, raspberry and chocolaty oak flavors finish herbal and resiny.
Muskateller is a powerhouse Muscat grape, chock full of buoyant stone fruit, melon and floral aromas. It's an unabashedly fruity, flamboyantly forward grape, but this off-dry example is brisk and balanced.
This is a bargain-priced blend of Grenache, Syrah, Carignan, Mourvèdre and Cinsault. The flavors are ripe and plummy, accented by hints of garrigue, while the tannins are modest and supple.
The varieties in the blend include Grenache Blanc, Roussanne and Viognier. They come together to offer hints of pineapple, pear and citrus. There's a silky texture on the palate, then a clean, crisp finish.
Plush, ripe apple and apricots are dusted in savory, earthy notes of slate and spice. It's a dancing, delicately framed wine with a balance of soft, sweet fruit and zesty acidity. Drink now.
So easy to enjoy, this mild-tasting but full-bodied wine is fruity in flavor and soft in texture. It has an earthy, savory aroma, generous plum and berry flavors, a mineral influence, light tannins and a lingering finish.
Subtle honeysuckle, orange and apricot aromas lead to nicely tangy fruit flavors, medium body and good crisp acidity. This is a well-balanced, vibrant and refreshing wine.
Woody in aroma, this is an exceptionally light-bodied, floral and herbal white, marked most by its high-pitched acidity that threatens to veer into extreme territory. Instead, beeswax and white peach figure into the mix, finishing in a refreshing twist of lemon.
This densely flavored and full-bodied wine has a very deep, dark color and aromas that suggest oak barrels, nutmeg and cardamom. The palate shows tension between firm tannins and acidity, and carries ripe blackberries, with spicy accents. Drink now through 2020.
With a dominance of Pinot Meunier in the blend, this soft, attractive wine offers apples and crisp citrus, with a light, lively texture. The wine, with its fresh aftertaste, is refreshing and bright.
This is certified organic, from one of Oregon's leading vineyards. Somewhat muted in this cool, wet vintage, it's nonetheless a sturdy effort with a potent herbal component. The stiff red fruits conjure up a tart cranberry and cherry mix.
This wine offers a bouquet of raspberry and smoked meat with a touch of bell pepper. Flavors of black cherry, smoked meat, black pepper and eucalyptus mingle on the palate, with savory notes outweighing fruit. Soft tannins coat the mouth, and ultimately black cherry lingers on the back palate.
Deep ruby in the glass, this wine has a bouquet of black currant, flint and bell pepper. A restrained tannic structure supports flavors of blackberry, damson plum, elderberry, violet and espresso with an added touch of bramble. The finish is marked by a note of fresh summer plum.
Boysenberry and exotic notes of all-spice and cardamom set this Malbec apart from the field. In the mouth, this is typically angular, with sharp acidity and not much cushion. A one-note, linear flavor of rooty plum is neither fruity nor dry, while the finish fails to rise or fall; it just hums along on a singular beam of acid. Drink from 2018–2030.
Slightly muted aromatically and on the palate, this sports clean and fresh cherry fruit, with a pleasing suggestion of minerality. The midpalate feels a bit hollow.
Baking spice, dried flower, dark-skinned berry and a whiff of coconut lead the nose on this straightforward Barolo. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, toast and vanilla alongside firm, tightly knit tannins.
Rather reserved in aromas for a dessert wine, this allows blackberry, black pepper and mineral notes to emerge with time. The palate is lightly sweet, with ripe blackberry and blueberry-jam flavors, made interesting with a pencil-lead minerality throughout.
Sun-ripened mango and pineapple flavors lend a lavish, tropical feel to this off-dry Riesling. At the same time, there's a resolute core of acidity that gives it balance and grace. It's concentrated and fruity but maintains vitality and length.
Brisk and bright, this delicately framed Pinot Noir offers both elegance and thirst-quenching quaffability. It's fresh and primary, bursting of raspberry and blossom, but finishes suprisingly long with a murmur of feathery tannin. Drink now.
Papaya and stone-fruit aromas are fleshy and a touch green and grassy, giving way to dustiness upon airing. This feels spritzy and good, with a full complement of golden apple, white grape and green plum flavors. Solid, stony and minerally on the finish, with a hint of tropical fruit flavor.
There's a lot of slate minerality on the nose of this bottling, alongside bright and fresh boysenberry fruit and a pine-needle character. The palate is tart with plum skin and grippy tannins, well balanced and also showing just the right amount of barnyard funk.
Fresh cherry and plum aromas are a bit scratchy but alert. This feels firm, with bright acidity creating a raw sense on the palate. Plum, berry and a pinch of saltiness make for an authentic flavor profile, while this finishes long and steady. Drink through 2018.
This linear red offers savory fruit flavors of ripe wild cherry, juicy strawberry, toast, white pepper and a hint of grilled herb. Fine-grained, drying tannins provide support. Drink after 2018.
Smoked beef, tart and tangy boysenberry jelly, black rocks and a cigar-box scent power the nose of this wine from an award-winning vineyard. The palate offers ample juicy tang along with chewy tannins, with dark chocolate, black cherry, and black olive enlivening the mouth.
This offer aromas of plum jam, Oriental spice, underbrush and a whiff of blue flower. The lively, approachable palate doles out juicy black cherry, blackberry, white pepper and clove alongside vibrant acidity.
Named after a trail in the Grand Canyon, this Napa-made bottling shows Japanese pear and cracked vanilla candy on a complex nose. It offers ample amounts of minerality, from slate to chalk, on the palate, followed by smoked stone fruit in the middle and pencil-lead elements toward the finish.
Rubbery, earthy aromas of berry fruits, plum and mushroom are solid but nondescript. This feels grabby and pinchy, with herbal, leafy, salty flavors that end with loamy plum and prune notes. Overall, this is big and forceful. Drink through 2019.
Rose, violet, wild berry and menthol aromas unfold in the glass. The bracing palate offers dried black cherry, licorice and clove alongside assertive, close-grained tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish. Drink after 2020.
A crisp and dry Vouvray, this still has those telltale honey flavors of delicious Chenin. It is rich and dense while also having great acidity and a tight, taut texture that will soften as the wine ages. It can be drunk now for its freshness, but it will be better from 2017.
Mature berry, dark cooking spice and blue flower are some of the aromas that emerge on this firm red. On the palate, ground pepper, clove and licorice accent a black cherry core while brisk acidity provides the racy framework.
Leather, pencil shavings and cedar provide an edge to this wine. It's otherwise soft and approachable in a mix of blackberry and black cherry, a seasoning of cinnamon and clove providing a pleasant hit of spice on the finish.
Aromas of wild berry, menthol, baking spice and a balsamic note lead the nose. On the tightly wound palate, bracing tannins support raw cherry, anise, tobacco and a hint of coffee alongside firm acidity.
Hints of bramble and earth lend savory nuances to sunny yellow peach and melon flavors in this bright vivaciously crisp Kabinett. Off-dry in style, it's balanced by a stream of focused tangerine acidity leading from midpalate through a moderately long finish. Start drinking now.
Concentrated rose petals, hibiscus and purple fruits meld with lava-rock aromas, all boosted by a touch of cola and smoke. Tart plum skins and Montgomery cherries play into the complex palate, which also shows turned earth and beef-jerky flavors.
This is 100% varietal, and sports interesting aromas of Provençal herbs. Peppery cranberry fruit is spicy and tart, fading through the midpalate into a lean, but lingering finish.
Dusty mineral and dried herb notes lend a savory tone to this elegant semisweet Riesling. The palate is intensely fruity, with ripe nectarine and tangerine flavors. It finishes moderately long, with a wet-stone minerality.
Fragrances of apple, pear and citrus carry over to the palate, along with pineapple and banana sensations. It has a fine, persistent perlage and a bone-dry finish.
Smoke and earth lend a savory tone to fresh apple and lemon aromas on this dry, intensely concentrated Riesling. It's bold and weighty on the palate, but energized by a strike of lemon-lime acidity and soft white peach tones that linger on the finish.
Dark and brooding in savory mushroom yumminess, Paul Hobbs' more affordable Pinot Noir offers dark cherry and spice in good proportion. Concentrated, lush and perfumed it'll accompany a range of foods enjoyably.
This full-bodied white leads with delicate aromas of lychee, Spanish broom and golden apples. The juicy, round palate delivers pear, apple and hints of baking spice brightened by fresh acidity that gives a clean, persistent finish.
A supple, medium-bodied white, it conveys aromas of stone fruit, pine apple and banana. The juicy, round palate offers sweet peach, green apple, zesty citrus and a mineral note alongside crisp acidity.
This savory wine opens with concentrated aromas of exotic fruit and green apples. The bright, juicy palate offers yellow peach, lemon zest and cantaloupe as well as crisp acidity. It closes on a note of bitter almond.
A delicate dusting mineral accents notes of pressed apples, wildflowers and peach on this dry but intensely fruity Riesling. Tart tangerine and pineapple flavors add a vivacious tartness that lingers long on the finish.
Young and snappy with crisp green apple fruit flavors, this racy and nicely textured Pinot Gris shows excellent balance, concentration and length. Delicious now and should improve through 2017.
There is no mistaking the purple chequered bottle of this wine. In its just off-dry character, it retains a light crispness, fresh apples and a soft, fruity feel. An attractive tang at the end makes it a good apéritif.
In this 2012 reserve, the fruit is sourced entirely from the Black Family estate vineyard. It's got medium concentration with cherry fruit the focus, enhanced with flavors of cola and truffle. Still quite young, the wine feels slightly disjointed; a second bottle was similar. Give this one additional bottle age.
This is a big, tough, tight and somewhat puzzling Pinot Noir. It's bone dry, moderate in alcohol and tart in acidity, with sour red cherry, cranberry, Dr. Pepper cola and new French oak flavors. It's hard and rude right now, although its inherent elegance shines through. The question is ageability. Give it until 2018 and see what it's doing.
A structured wine, it has the weight and the firm tannins to give it aging potential. Black cherries, dark fruits and juicy acidity are paired with the drier tannic structure, amking for a smooth and rich wine. Drink from 2016.
This is the third wine of classed growth Château Grand-Puy-Lacoste, a charming offspring of the more serious grand vin. It shows lively black fruits, touches of wood and balanced acidity. It's a wine to drink young and fruity, so open from 2016.
This opens with intense floral aromas that recall white roses, lemon zest and apricot. The linear, vibrant palate offers pink grapefruit, white peach and a flint note alongside crisp acidity that leaves a refreshing finish. Oliver McCrum, T. Edward Wines.
Another fine example of Bechthold's dry-farmed, old, gnarled-vine beauty in a glass, this wine is light in color and high-toned in cherry and rhubarb fruit. Buoyed by acidity, the finish offers just a light seasoning of pepper.
The vineyard is on Westside Road, in the warmer part of the valley. The wine is gentle, balanced and immediately likeable for its array of raspberries, cherries and cola. Heat from alcohol makes it a little ungainly, and may limit ageability. Drink through 2019.
This is a well-balanced blend of Aragonez, Trincadeira and Syrah. With its straight line in black fruits, dark tannins and lively acidity, it shows a fine structure and a good future. Touches of leather, chocolate and the wood aging all add interest. Drink from 2017.
Good for Burgess for holding this Syrah back for a little while. It's beginning to soften, just barely. The tannins are still strong, but you can taste those bright blackberries and cherries starting to show meaty hints of wild grilled portobello mushrooms. It will drink well in late 2014 with hearty roasts and stews.
Aromas of freshly cut flowers, green apple, lime and white peach leap from the glass. The creamy texture is brightened by lively acidity. It's simple but well executed.
This full-bodied Pinot Grigio opens with aromas of tropical fruit, melon and stone fruit. The concentrated palate delvers yellow peach, mature pear and juicy pineapple alongside notes of aromatic herbs.
A blend of Sangiovese and Malvasia, this wine conveys aromas of espresso, roasted coffee bean, black fruit and mint. The palate offers oak, vanilla, toast, coffee, black cherry, black pepper and grilled balsamic herbs. It's soft and already accessible. Drink now through 2019.
Boyd Cantenac's second wine is a soft and plump. It has ripe tannins and a generous texture, along with a gentle structure and good depth of flavor. The black fruits are already well integrated with the tannins to give a rich and juicy wine. Drink from 2016.
Prickly aromas of herbal fruits, tar and hard spices turn more jammy and wayward with airing. This feels on the heavy and chunky side, while flavors of green herbs, olive, buttery oak and mossy black fruits finish with a high percentage of body fat versus lean muscle.
Ripe bramble notes accent pristine raspberry and cherry notes in this bright, remarkably juicy Spätburgunder. It's zippy and fresh on the palate, with a spray of cranberry flavor that wraps up nicely in a coat of velvet tannins on the finish.
Smoke and crushed mineral notes, along with a lean, herbal tone, make this off-dry Riesling especially elegant and savory in style. Lime zest and lemon flavors fill the mouth with vital energy. It finishes moderately long, on a juicy tangerine note.
Initial notes of earth and dust blow off with aeration to reveal pretty white floral and peach aromas. Off dry in style, the palate is concentrated with ripe honeydew flavor against a backdrop of steely, linear acidity.
A strongly wood-aged wine, it is packed with toast and vanilla, but has a hard time remembering the fruit. At the moment, the wine has weight, the lightest hints of ripe tropical flavors and acidity. It needs more aging to broaden out and allow the fruit to sing. Drink from 2016.
There is as much fruit as structure in this wine. Ripe red fruits are supported by solid tannins while pushing out fragrant acidity. It has structure while also allowing room for final fruitiness.
A smooth and rounded wine, it has ripe plum and spice flavors to go with soft tannins. A smoky character, juicy fruit and acidity show an open, friendly aftertaste.
This is a transition vintage, in which Alex Sokol Blosser has taken over the principal winemaker duties. This is a delicate, well-structured effort, showing an aromatic mix of cherry blossoms, clove and orange peel notes. Refined raspberry and cherry fruit carries a streak of tarragon, and finishes just slightly bitter.
Whole-cluster pressed and barrel fermented, this is a deep gold, and opens powerfully with scents of buttered fruit and nuts. It's rich and creamy, showing toast and other barrel tones ahead of any specific fruit. Drink now through 2018.
Aromas of Spanish broom, acacia and oak lead the nose. The vibrant palate offers yellow apple, citrus, toasted hazel nut and mineral alongside lively acidity.
Some flinty notes precede earthier, ripe apple notes that also spread across the palate. There is a textured mouthfeel, while a clean seam of lemon crispness counters the earthy fruit. Texture and freshness linger pleasantly.
This is a ripe, jammy wine with red plum and sweet strawberry fruits that are cut by both the acidity and the toasty tannins. Although ripe, the wine offers attractive juicy freshness. The aftertaste brings out more of the tannins.
What appears as apply, plummy fruit on the nose gains ample spice on the palate. Fermented and aged in used barriques, this wine has an unusual style that really demands food. It's fresh and fruity but with added roundness from wood.
Crisp and linear, this offers delicate aromas of Spanish broom and orchard fruit. The vibrant palate offers fresh green apple and juicy citrus while energizing mineral backs up the fresh, flinty finish.
This is a fully oaken, reserve-level wine with decadent yellow wax that's concentrated and ripe on the palate in toffee, vanilla and baked apple pie. Robust, it drinks decadently.
This spent 18 months in French oak and three years in bottle, ahead of an April 2016 release. Light and elegant, it carries a whiff and taste of leather, with earthy, slightly grainy tannins. With air, the strawberry fruit gains some flesh. Decant it and drink now through 2018.
This is a fruity wine with lively acidity and a brisk, zingy character. Freshness shoots through the wine, making it lively with hints of yellow fruits. The aftertaste is crisp and ripe.
This is quite a funky, gamey blend of 33% Grenache, 33% Syrah, 30% Mourvèdre and 4% Alicante Bouschet, with beef carpaccio, concentrated plum and tobacco aromas. Dried beef, dried purple-flowers, asphalt, condensed black-pepper and deep balsamic-reduction flavors are laced through a charred palate.
A grippy, densely concentrated and full-bodied wine, which will benefit from vigorous swirling or cellaring, there are hints of black fruit, leather saddle and cedar at its edges, waiting to grow wings. Drink now through 2023.
It's a subtle and light wine, yet it captures the elegantly refined gravitas of the grape. Suggestions of root beer and cola wrap around strawberry fruit. There's a hint of dill and an impression of clean earth. Decant this and it greatly improves.
Alluring aromas of citrus, white flower and a whiff of tropical fruit come together on this. The racy palate offers lemon zest, mango, sage, saline and an almond note alongside vibrant acidity.
This soft, rounded wine has attractive ripe white-stone-fruit flavor. It also has a rich, spicy side, with light hints of wood that give it a mellow character. The wine is developing well and will be ready from 2017.
Soft apple notes on nose and palate make for a subtle, soft but fresh wine. The fruitiness is there but not in the foreground, just coloring this friendly, lightly textured wine with flavor. Drink soon; it will be at its best with equally subtle food or soft cheeses.
This is delicately scented with whispers of yellow flower, spring blossom and woodland berry. The lively palate delivers crushed strawberry, nectarine, juicy cherry and fennel while a mineral vein energizes the finish.
Austere notes of crushed minerals on the nose belie the punch of peach and melon that await in the palate of this off-dry Riesling. It's a spry but penetrating fruity wine balanced by zesty acidity and a floral touch that lingers on the finish. Drink now through 2020.
Napoleon's secret was that he liked Syrah in his Bordeaux blends, so this mix of 46% Cabernet Sauvignon, 23% Syrah, 13% Cabernet Franc, 12% Merlot, 4% Malbec and 2% Petit Verdot shows why, offering fresh and vibrant aromas of blueberry and licorice candy. Bright blackberry preserves pop on the palate as does fudge in this easy-drinking wine.
This reserve-level cuvée spent eight months in 55% new French oak, and can benefit from additional bottle age. Tightly wound flavors of red berries and red licorice carry a hint of watery chocolate. But there isn't the expected depth or power here, given its place in the winery's Pinot Noir hierarchy.
Made entirely with Nerello Cappuccio, this reveals aromas of raspberry compote, tilled earth, ripe berry and grilled herb. The juicy palate delivers fleshy black cherry, licorice, white pepper and a hint of sage alongside bright acidity and smooth tannins. It's already accessible. Drink through 2019.
Made with Nero d'Avola and Perricone, this offers alluring aromas of red berry, spice and a floral note. The bright, immediate palate offers succulent wild cherry, crushed raspberry nectarine zest and a hint of baking spice alongside zesty acidity that leads to a crisp, clean finish.
Lively and fragrant notes of ripe pear and red apple are immensely appetizing, while the palate is edged with its very own spiciness. The totally moreish ripe-apple freshness pervades and illuminates everything and echoes long. Drink soon while aromas are at their peak.
Delicately scented, this offers aromas of honeysuckle, citrus blossom and pear while the round, juicy palate doles out white peach, mature apple and Mediterranean herb. A hint of almond closes the clean, lingering finish.
Fermented and aged in acacia barrels, this deeply colored white has aromas of candied citrus, mature apple, toast and honey. The honeyed note carries over to the evolved palate along with yellow apple skin, coffee, dried herb and a hint of smoke. A walnut note marks the finish.
A blend of red fruit and dark spice shows on the nose of this wine, with dried strawberry and red cherry running into licorice, purple flowers and black slate. The flavors are broad with cherry candy notes, boosted by a boisterous pepper spice, and settling into a decently tart finish.
This wine has an attractive cedary, floral aroma, rich fruit accents and a suave streak of new-oak flavor that adds spice and an extra dimension of mouthfeel. It is full-bodied, saturated with fine tannins and has a bold personality.
Lively nutty and citrus aromas meet apple and lime flavors in this full-bodied and mouth-watering wine. It has fresh acidity to counter a fairly rich texture, and the resulting balance reinforces the bright flavors.
Very familiar Rioja aromas of cherry, plum and prune scream Tempranillo. This is wiry in feel, with tight, hammering acidity. Berry and black-cherry flavors finish on a subtle note of chocolate along with a final shot of juicy, sharp acidity.
Made from organic grapes, this well-proportioned wine has light oak aromas, classic cherry and black plum flavors, and touches of black olive and herbs. There is something mouthwatering about the firm tannins and acidity, and these will help it pair well with food.
Inman has not offered much Chardonnay before, but this one is highly distinctive, light as a feather, floral, crisp and citrusy, basking in Chablis-like, wet stone minerality. Those looking for butter and oak should travel elsewhere; at a preposterously unheard of 11.6% alcohol, this wine offers silky, subtle intrigue.
Ripe yellow fruits and fragrant acidity dominate this bright, fruity wine. It has a light touch of minerality and a tight steely texture that is full of zest, giving a layered structure of fruit and acidity. The wine, one of the Kuentz-Bas biodynamic range, should age, so drink from 2016.
Fresh tomato, plum, herb and spice aromas are authentic. A medium bodied palate is lifted and elegant. Flavors of woody spice, light herb, raspberry and red plum finish racy, with hints of cocoa and white pepper. Among Chilean Pinot Noirs, this is at the top of its field.
From a myriad of wonderful vineyards, this vibrant wine offers an incredible deal at the price, with a lively bouquet of fennel, apple and pear. Chalky in texture with delicious acidity, it has baking spices popping up on balanced finish.
Notes of violet, preserved plums and cherries persist throughout this lush, concentrated Pinot Noir. It's medium-bodied in style, with crisp acidity, yet the palate seems to build in richness and body. The finish brings elegant, fine-grained tannins.
Made cryogenically, this sweet late harvest-style wine—which clocks in at 165 g/L residual sugar—delivers a lot of decadent flavor. Honey and tea—unctuous and peachy—coat the tongue while remaining on the right side of cloying. Streaks of vanilla and butter cookie come into play as well.
Named after winemaker David Corey's son, this 74% Cabernet Sauvignon, 19% Cabernet Franc, 4% Petit Verdot and 3% Merlot begins with nose-tickling scents of berry syrup and smoked cigars. The maduro cigar flavor consumes the palate, with black cherry fruit and smooth tannins. It can stand up to a fat stogie or gamy meats like lamb.
Layers of mushroom, savory spice, and earth lend depth and complexity to luscious red raspberry and cherry flavors in this complex, standout Cabernet Franc. Tart cranberry cuts through the supple and silky palate, leading to a cool, mineral finish.
Touches of sage and tarragon breathe freshness into succulent red cherry and berry aromas on this rich, full-bodied Cabernet Franc. The palate shows off pure, pristine red fruit, jolted by a shock of cranberry acidity and a lingering wet-granite finish.
This is a barrel-aged, punch-in-the-face blend of 62% Grenache and 38% Mourvèdre from Santa Maria-based winemaker Dave Corey, who sources most of his fruit from the Cuyama Valley. Its cherry syrup nose dives into a thick, juicy palate, heavily spiced with tobacco, laden with chalky tannins and ending with vanilla.
Of all the 2012 releases from Mannina, this is the most dense, dark and substantial. Cassis and black cherry fruit is set against a stiff streak of char and coffee, backed with firm, ripe tannins. The length and balance are just right for ripe fruit from young vines.
This blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 21% Merlot, 19% Cab Franc and 10% Petit Verdot is sourced from the Hedges, Stillwater, and Conner Lee vineyards. At first soft and smooth, it morphs into a textural wine with a mouthful of purple and black fruits—from blackberry on through cassis. Streaks of smoke, graphite and espresso highlight the finish.
Charred beef tips, grilled whole fish, wet dirt and heavy tar combine for a pungent, serious nose on this Syrah from a vineyard planted by Central Coast pioneer Dale Hampton. It's elegant and soft on the palate, opening up with boysenberry and sage, and possesses ample tannins for aging. Hang on until 2018.
With tight, crisp aromas of berry fruit, toast, mineral and mint, this Cabernet Sauvignon blend is high toned—coming across racy and snappy. Jumpy, lively plum and raspberry flavors are backed by leafy, herbal notes and resiny oak. A spicy mint finish concludes this energetic yet oaky blend. Drink through 2021.
From a vineyard in the heart of Rutherford replanted in time to make the 2010 vintage, this Tonella Cabernet is dark black and dense in black cherry, tobacco and chocolate. Ready to age until 2017 or so, the wine imparts a lift of acidity on the finish.
Granite and red cherry notes are reminiscent of fine Beaujolais in this surprisingly tasty Hudson River Gamay. Cranberry and cherry flavors are tangy and revitalizing, nuanced by fresh herbs and leaves. It's elegant and sprightly through a moderately long finish.
One of Santa Barbara County's pioneer properties delivers an aromatically luscious wine, with aromas of white flowers, French toast, quince and lime sorbet on the nose. It's a bit like sipping perfume of tuberose and honeysuckle, yet there is bouncy acidity and chalky minerality, ensuring an emerging shelf life through 2018.
One of the rare vineyards which can produce Grand Cru Sylvaner, Zotzenberg's chalk soil gives a mineral while juicy and fresh wine. The lightest hint of spice gives the wine some weight, and the ripe, fruity apples and creamed pear are already delicious. Not for aging.
Full-bodied and lush on the palate, this exuberant wine offers a brightness of red raspberry fruit followed by acres of lively clove and ginger spice. High in acidity, it has years to go before it sleeps, the finish savory in leather.
This leads off with aromas of mature black fruit, toasted oak, coffee bean and a whiff of balsamic herbs. The ripe palate delivers fleshy red cherry and black raspberry with layers of cocoa, espresso and sage alongside bracing tannins.
Pretty aromas suggest violet, sandalwood, incense, plum and chocolate. The ripe palate offers crushed black cherry, mocha, espresso and vanilla alongside firm tannins. A licorice note signals the close.
Ripe plum fruits give this big and fruity wine from the 130-acre Castéra vineyard a rich character. The structure provides a fine support with tannins that bring out the concentrated blackberry fruits. It's full of potential; drink from 2018.
A well constructed, solid wine, this has a fine layer of firm tannins that melds well with the rich black plums and acidity. Even this young, the wine is showing a balanced character, warm and ripe. It will age, so drink from 2018.
Winemaker Kristy Melton continues to show a sense of restraint in her wines. This Merlot provides a classic example, concentrated in dusty red fruit and smooth, supple tannins, a sideways glance of cinnamon and clove flirting thoughout. Structure and elegance reign here over power and oak.
Expertly integrated butter elements mix with peach and lime spritz on the nose. This single-vineyard Chardonnay offers stone fruit flavors, slight sea saltiness and a long vanilla finish for very easy drinking.
A tremendously well-made Chardonnay at the price and production levels, this is lean in high-toned acidity but offers tropical goodness, a swath of lime throughout. Balanced and tense, the twist of lime comes back on the finish. This is a great wine to stock up on for larger gatherings.
This structured wine features an enticing fragrance of red rose petal, blue flower and a whiff of crushed red berry. The robust palate delivers juicy black cherry layered with notes of spice, vanilla, tobacco and anisette alongside firm tannins that need time to unfold.
This brilliant straw colored Chardonnay has aromas of lemon blossoms and green apples. On the palate, it's smooth and clean with flavors of lemon curd and baked apple.
Fragrances suggest wild berry layered with notes of forest floor, red rose, leather, clove and balsam. On the palate, sage, thyme and espresso back up sensations of ripe Morello cherry alongside tightly woven and assertive tannins that need time to unwind. Drink 2016–2023.
This powerful Cabernet Sauvignon calls on 13% Malbec to further its brawn, the mix spending two years in entirely new French oak. Hugely muscular, it needs time to calm its masterfully ripe fruit and dark layers of clove spice, and to further soften its tannins and coax out the shy component of herb. The vineyard behind the wine is Bismark within the newly named Moon Mountain District.
This wine has overlapping personalities. One drips richly in vanilla and honey, while the other is lemony tart and electric in acidity. They commingle on the finish, and will clearly decide whether to get along or part over time. Give the wine a good swirl.
Steely yet somewhat sweet, it offers a richness of baked apple and pear amid midweight layers of softened tannins.
Supple at the core, this wine is framed by a medium amount of chewy tannins that give traction to the high-toned flavors of tobacco, vanilla and earthy spices.
With attractive lemon flavors within a smooth and rich wine, this is both bright and ripe. It's aromatic and full in the mouth, showing apple, peach and mineral tones. Drink from 2015.
Informal and simple, it offers bright red cherry-berry fruit, sweet cake spices and hints of alpine herbs. The silky smooth tannins and fresh acidity make this already extremely accessible so enjoy now–2020.
Pink lemonade and cherry pie mesh together into a strong, slightly boozy aroma on this adventurous blend of 30% Petite Sirah, 30% Syrah, 30% Grenache and 10% Tannat from Matt Villard's Petite Sirah-focused project. Cherry and orange juice dominate the palate.
This forward wine opens with funky aromas of game and leather, with a whiff of barnyard. The palate is evolved and much of the fruit has already dried up, leaving bitter prune alongside green, astringent tannins.
Rustic aromas recall barnyard, game and overripe black fruit. The palate offers mature plum layered with chocolate, vanilla and game, with extremely astringent tannins that give a drying, lean finish.
Ruby garnet in color, this has aromas of red plums, purple flowers and black fruit conserves. There are nice bright fruit flavors on the palate, with touches of tobacco leaf and tart cherry on the finish.
Berry and plum aromas come with a hard oak topping that's hinting at paint and turpentine. The palate is juicy and tannic, with flavors of plum, berry, minty herbs and oak. The finish is rubbery and hot, with oaky leftovers.
Aromas of grilled herbs, barbecue sauce and pressed flowers are bold and delineated. Medium in weight, it has a soft core framed by lean tannins and bright acids.
Firm dark-berry aromas come with cola and leafy notes that feel tannic and gripping but alive. Big berry and black plum flavors are leafy and spicy in style. It finishes tight, but should open and relax with a bit of time in the glass, and would go well with pizza and burgers.
This wine shows apparent barrel aging on the nose, with vanilla bean and coconut oil alongside caramelized apricot aromas. There is a very ripe papaya and guava tropicality on the palate, with a slight finish of iodine.
Focused scents of white peach, salumi and yellow apple mark this blend of 50% Chardonnay and 50% Sauvignon Blanc. Lax acidity makes the wine feel tensionless. A note of apple juice marks the medium-long finish.
Expressive of dill, licorice and cherry flavors, the palate bears firm tannins and balanced acids.
Sampled in a half bottle, this unusual version of a Muscat (most are off-dry) was quite tart, with potent flavors of citrus flesh and rind. Not as much orange flavor as one might expect, it's more in the lemon/grapefruit camp.
Concentrated berry aromas are basic and hint at sugar beets. This feels jammy and a bit syrupy, while robust berry, beet and chocolate flavors finish a touch heavy and sticky. For the money, this is generous and plenty good.
Full, pushy aromas of stewed plum, tomato, herbs and heavy oak come in front of a high-acid palate with salty flavors of herbal red plum, oregano, basil and tomato. A saline character sits heavily on the wine's chunky finish.
As fresh as can be, this is a bright, lively and lightly perfumed wine. It has grapefruit, apricot fruit and a touch of minerality. Drink through 2015.
With its intense spice and rich texture, the wine seems bigger than it is. In fact, it is fresh while soft and very aromatic, with a pale salmon color. It's delicious, smooth and ready to drink.
Brûléed pastry crust and salted butter aromas overlay golden apple and spiced pear tones. The palate feels lax with curved acids, which lead to a light, yielding finish.
The wine is soft, showing ripe apple fruits, pears and apricots, with fresh acidity. It's light, but has a strong sense of texture and minerality. It's ready to drink but will be better early in 2015.
This aged Riesling is medium gold colored, with pleasant aromas of lemon peel and petrol. It is round and generous on the palate, with flavors of lemon custard and green olive tapenade. The finish is long, with lingering flavors of lemon pith.
Bright plum and berry aromas are clear but basic. In the mouth, this young wine is crisp, tannic and a touch citric. Wild berry flavors dance alongside peppery spice notes, while the finish is zesty, a touch bitter and hot.
Aromas of dust and stewed plums give a pleasing entry, but once sipped the wine tastes like it needs more time to mature. The flavors approach strawberry and other red fruits, but remain quite tart and tannic.
A pretty strawberry-colored rosé, this shows uniform scents and flavors of strawberry, with a peppery kick in the finish. It was fermented in neutral French oak.
The wine is light, fresh and fruity. Red berry flavors come through strongly along with crisp acidity and the lightest touch of tannin. You can't miss the acidity at the end.
A big, ripe and jammy wine made from old vines. There are black plum fruits but the wine is dominated by licorice, black coffee and wood. It is powerful and very solid. Drink from 2017.
Light in color it reveals intense aromas of ripe, baked cherry fruit and pungent earth, streaks of herbal cinnamon and clove playing in the background.
Concentrated toast and golden apple notes carry onto the round, medium- to full-bodied palate, which comes with bright acids, a white peach flavor and a sense of flesh.
Tart Mandarin orange rind is woven into riper aromas of Anjou pear and honey butter on the nose of this wine. Its palate is Chablis-like, with lime, lemon and kumquat flavors, strung from a nervy, chalky spine, finishing with limestone and gravel touches.
Big, powerful and confidently ripe, this full-bodied wine oozes with luscious blackberry, wild sage and blueberry flavors that seemingly melt in the mouth. A great example of the late harvest style without being sweet, it's dry, concentrated and persistent on the finish.
Named for the special format of small oak barrel it's aged in, this has soaked up the oak impressively. Hints of vanilla and graham crackers accent mixed berry fruit, while the finish is long and mouthwatering. There's ample concentration, yet the wine never seems heavy. Drinkable now, but why rush things? Drink 2020–2030.
Truffle, leather, mature black-skinned fruit and carob aromas emerge from this powerful red. The full-bodied palate delivers succulent wild cherry, black raspberry, licorice, pipe tobacco and grilled herb flavors with big, chewy tannins. Drink 2019–2027.
A touch of flinty reduction clings to the nose but soon relaxes into soft notes of ripe black cherry. The palate is textured and dry, harmonious with fruit and the gentle ripple and crunch of slightly rustic but utterly pleasant tannins. This seems to be its perfect drinking window now: generous with fruit, utterly harmonious and starting to mellow. The finish is fresh, clean and totally moreish. If you can resist at all, this may well continue to develop. Drink now through 2025.
Seared lemon, hazelnut, brown butter and sandalwood with a graphite minerality come through on the nose of this complex wine from Jonathan Nagy. The palate offers hints of herbs and chamomile at first, then washes of citrusy acidity and apple notes, all held together with steely tension.
Fresh blackberry and boysenberry aromas meld with rose petal and hickory smoke on the warm entry of this bottling from Jonathan Nagy. The palate is packed with peppery spice, bright red cherry, thyme and root beer flavors.
Forest floor, truffle, new leather, ripe berry and a balsamic note are some of the aromas you'll find in this delicious red. The fresh, chewy palate doles out fleshy black cherry, chopped mint and white pepper notes, while big, round tannins provide structure. It's already enjoyable but will offer years of fine drinking. Enjoy 2018–2024.
This purple-tinted Carignan is a concentrated number with familiar varietal and regional aromas of latex, graphite, schist, tire rubber and black fruits. In the mouth, this is chewy and full bodied, but not heavy. Oaky spicy blackberry and nutmeg flavors linger on a mildly woody, extracted and gritty finish. Best to give this a few more years so drink through 2022.
The wine from this estate perched high above Château Angélus is tight and mineral. While the dark dense tannins are to the fore, it also has great fruits. The acidity and the crisp texture give the wine both its intensity and its potential. Drink from 2025.
Packed with the dark tannins and structure of Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine, produced by the team of Calon Ségur is intense, concentrated and dark. It has a firm structure, solid and with a luscious aftertaste. The acidity of the year just shows at the end. Drink from 2026.
Owned by the Vialard family, this is a very fine wine. While it does have strong wood flavors at this young stage, they are going to be there to support the ripe jammy fruit. The wine from this 111-acre estate is generous and is going to age well. Drink from 2022.
The second wine of Cos d'Estournel is powerfully packed with tannins and dark ripe fruit. It is enormously rich and intense while keeping a fine smooth texture. There is a dark core that is going to allow the wine to develop over many years. Drink from 2024.
This is a deliciously balanced wine. Spice from the wood aging makes a happy contrast with the black-currant fruit and acidity. It is elegant and with great fruitiness. The wine, with its tannic base, will age well. The estate is to the west of Saint-Emilion, close to Château Figeac. Drink from 2023.
The tannins and density of this wine are impressive. With its strong structure and concentrated fruit, the wine is ripe and likely to age well. Blackberry and red-cherry flavors dominate a wine that is going to be ready to drink from 2022.
This graceful, light-bodied wine from a promising new brand smells of strawberries and cream and tastes fresh and well-balanced. Red cherry, strawberry and clove notes blend with the creamy texture, leaving a soft but lightly tannic feel on the tongue that makes the wine even more appetizing and complete.
There is the merest hint of chamomile lift on the nose, pulling all the other flavors heavenwards with it. There is apple as well as lemon zest. The palate is wonderfully pure and totally dry. Here and there more herbal inflections show and more mellow hints of baked apple. This is dry, taut and aromatic, but also clean-cut and precise. Lovely now but with definite aging potential. Drink now through 2030.
A slightly brooding nose suggests brambly fruit as well as freshness. The palate crunches with red and black cherry, imbued with a kind of boyish impish joy. This is disarmingly rustic, but also very, very unusual and utterly moreish in its singular and honest simplicity. Drying tannins coat the mouth while juicy tart freshness makes you want to take another sip. This is all about stormy, romantic wilderness. Beware, this might just steal your heart.
Brilliant golden color promises richness. The nose obliges with a seamless scent of apples: fresh and ripe, baked and mellow. The palate shows soaring freshness, but countless notions swirl on the dry palate of this traditional field blend: citrus and apple, pear and blossom. There is so much fruit, so much expression, this is pure exuberance, but in a rather grown-up way. A very apt expression of both the freshness and the richness of Alsace.
Heady notes of dried pear mingle with pleasant notes of earth. The palate is totally fluid and concentrated, streamlined with freshness but characterized by a rich luscious vein of sweetness. This is a late harvest to be reckoned with. Concentration and length are impressive and are just now getting into their stride.
There is just a faint touch of honeysuckle on the nose. The palate follows with creamy floral peach notes on an incredibly light-bodied fluid palate of great intensity and stony depth. It is only on the aftertaste that the full volume and power of these aromatics shine. This feels like the aromatic heart of Alsace itself.
With a sizable presence on the nose and a palate evocative of black cherry, strawberry compote and orange peel, this wine speaks volumes in terms of texture and body. Its full-bodied concentration is supported by generous oak. Despite all that power, the tannins remain demure and relatively well behaved.
Winemaker Kenneth Juhasz sources fruit from the Ranch House Block within the larger Durell Vineyard for this wine. From Wente clones, it offers intensity and bracing acidity—a crisp, bright and stony celebration that's both lovely and sublime. Its gravelly texture recalls rock candy and apple sprinkled with spice.
The vineyard from which this wine is sourced sits along the Gualala River in view of the Pacific Ocean, enjoying coastal weather and elevations of up to 1,100 feet. Baked blueberry pie laced with clove is the first impression, supported by bright acidity. Exotic in profile, it imparts cedar and tea notes, its tannins fine yet tenacious.
Ripe black-fruit aromas are cuddly and reflect the warm conditions of 2012. Tight and ribbed on the palate, this has the structure to handle blackberry, chocolate and peppery spice flavors without seeming overripe or jammy. A saturated finish benefits from the right amount of acidity. Drink through 2023.
Ripe plum, tobacco, dark spice and balsamic aromas adorn this invigorating red. Firm and full-bodied, the palate delivers wild cherry, crushed raspberry, star anise and grilled herb flavors with a backbone of youthful, bracing tannins. It's already tempting but give it time to fully come around. Drink 2020–2032.
A lavish deep blend of 66% Mourvèdre and 34% Tannat, this is not for the faint of heart or weak in spirit. Pitch black in the glass, it shows espresso, vanilla, caramel and leather touches on the nose. Black cherry and crème de cassis flavors pop on the palate, with strong coffee-like tannins and a creamy vanilla finish. It's still quite young.
This tiny hands-on artisanal producer has a particular gift for expressing the fruit of the Maresh vineyard, which was originally planted 45 years ago. This new release is elegant and aromatic, with precise details throughout. Fresh raspberries, light chocolate, a hint of nougat and persistent length are all part of the equation. Drink now through 2024.
Owned by the Wrights, this vineyard delivers smooth, forward, full-bodied flavors of cranberry, raspberry and blue plum. There's a tart snap to the fruit, and a clear sense that it has the structure and depth to develop nicely over the next decade or longer.
There's something almost Grenache-like in the flavors here, which are focused, youthful and packed with ripe red fruits. It's tart and well-tempered, and lingers gracefully. Hints of orange peel lead into an impression of orange liqueur, framing the supple tannins. Drink now through 2025.
While sunny melon and peach flavors are forward and fruity, an underlining of chalky minerality lends finesse and elegance to this dry, neatly composed wine. It feels sprightly on the palate, finishing briskly on a lifted white-blossom note.
Thick and rich, this is a wine of breadth and depth, yeasty in baked bread and ripe in fresh raspberry. The proceedings are accented in Asian spice and black pepper through the finish.
Aged 10 months in 25% new American oak, this pleasantly oaky wine delights with its complexity and overall balance. Pineapple, peach and citrus fruits are complemented by notes of coconut (there's that American oak) and hazelnut. Firm acids bring further citrus highlights to the finish.
Clarissa Nagy, whose main job is making wine for Riverbench, sources grapes from the nearby Garey Ranch Vineyard for this bottling. It shows strawberry, plum blossom, beet juice, rose petals and cola on the nose. The palate is light and easy, with flavors of pencil lead, Earl Grey tea and brisk cranberry juice.
Grenache makes up nearly three-quarters of this blend, with the rest Syrah and Mourvèdre. Bright raspberry, cranberry, rose hip and white pepper aromas lead to elegant yet high octane fruit flavors that taper toward the warm finish.
Made of 100% Çalkarasi, an indigenous Turkish grape, this coral-colored wine offers a bouquet of strawberry and pomegranate. It is both full on the palate and refreshing, with flavors of strawberry, pomegranate, aniseed, lavender and a hint of smoke.
Varietal offerings are a rarity in this appellation. This one brings aromas of dill, woodspice and vanilla, with the focus on the barrel. The tart red cherry flavors are silky smooth, gliding on the finish.
Coconut, chocolate and coffee make for sweet and savory companions in this mushy, grippy and satisfying wine. Big on power and concentration, it has an underlay of brown sugar.
Subdued aromas of French oak, espresso, game and a hint of exotic spice come together in the glass. The palate delivers toast, licorice, roasted coffee bean, fleshy black cherry and oak-driven spice accompanied by fine-grained tannins. It's already rather evolved so drink sooner rather than later.
Floral and funky, this combines 47% Syrah, 42% Malbec, 10% Cabernet Franc and 1% Viognier. Medium-strength, it's a rustic, dusty wine with notes of blackberry, blueberry and a touch of dried herb.
Dark cherry in color, this wine features a bouquet of raspberry and chocolate with a hint of smoked meat. It is very light on the palate, and flavors of cherry, strawberry and thyme play on the tongue into the bright, clean finish.
This variety's signature dried- and fresh-herb aromas are on full display, with light barrel spices in the background. The palate brings lightly sweet plum and currant flavors that provide appeal.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Syrah, Montepulciano, Sangiovese and a drop of Petit Verdot, this has aromas of pressed blue flower, dark-skinned berry and toast. The firm, straightforward palate offers black currant, clove and a hint of tobacco. Fine-grained tannins proved the frame work.
Aromas of scorched earth, chopped mint, menthol, dried herb and mature berry lead the nose. The robust palate offers raisin, licorice, clove and espresso alongside evident alcohol. Aggressive tannins leave an astringent, tongue-drying close.
This hearty red opens with aromas of toast, coffee bean, ripe plum, leather and a dash of menthol. The warm, robust palate offers dried black cherry marinated in spirits, raisin, licorice and espresso alongside dusty tannins that dry out the finish. Showing the heat of the vintage, it's already evolved, with evident alcohol that throws it off-balance.
This wine offers aromas of clove and woodspice, with blue-fruit notes in the background. The flavors showing pleasing density and weight, shortening up on the finish.
Made from 68% Pinot Noir and 32% Syrah, this ethereal wine is pillowy in candied aromas of lemon and lime. Pinkish-copper in color, it's light, bright and succulent, and then finishes dry and with brevity.
This soft, fruity wine is pretty much ready to drink. With its red-berry fruits and fresh acidity it has a crisp side, although its round, ripe texture is so attractive. Drink from the end of 2016.
Made with 90% Sangiovese and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon, this red offers subdued aromas of black cherry, blue flower and baking spice. On the palate, notes of vanilla and roasted coffee bean accent black plum while firm tannins provide mouth-puckering support.
Vanilla, cherry and a crunch of barbecue chips greet the entry of this full-bodied, weighty wine that's soft in tannin. Baked plum and cinnamon make it inviting and satisfying on the palate, finishing with a zest of racy acidity.
Bright and fragrant, this opens with scents of wild berry, rose and violet. The vibrant palate delivers tart cherry, blood orange, anise and chopped herb alongside supple tannins and zesty acidity. There's no complexity but it's easy drinking and thoroughly enjoyable.
Made with 95% Malvasia and 5% Sangiovese, this opens with aromas of resin, dried fruit and flaky pastry. On the sweet but rather fresh palate, clover honey and pine nut accent a core of mature apricot.
A light, easy drinking but enjoyable expression of Brunello, this offers subtle aromas of blue flower, wild berry and a hint of baking spice. The medium-bodied palate shows black cherry, anise and a coffee note alongside pliant tannins. Drink through 2020.
Aromas of toasted oak, plum, menthol and crushed violet open on the nose. The palate offers dried black cherry, licorice, leather, chopped sage and espresso alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink sooner rather than later.
Rooty, nutty aromas of stewed fruits are almost baked out. On the palate, this rallies to show muscle and shape. Flavors of dried cherry, plum and raisin feature notes of caramel and spice. On the finish, this is mild and on cruise control. Drink now.
Spicy, minty aromas of dried herbs and modest red fruits are stony and dry. This is a juicy, agile Mencía with flavors of dry oak, spice, red currant and plum. A clean, clear, stony finish is light, bright and punchy.
Here's a spicy red that opens with aromas of clove, ground pepper, red berry and an earthy note of underbrush. The round, easygoing palate offers mature black cherry, licorice and a hint of espresso framed in polished tannins. Drink through 2017.
Chestnut honey, dried apricot and toasted almond aromas unfold in the glass and carry over to the palate along with hints of baking spice and hazelnut. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on the close.
Plush black cherry and berry flavors are off set by layers of bramble, herb and dark toast in this slightly savory Merlot. Showing more restraint than intensity, it's an elegant wine framed by crisp acidity a fine fringe of tannins.
Aromas suggesting mature plum, scorched earth, clove, menthol and a hint of iris lead the nose. The ripe, one-dimensional palate offers mature black cherry, raspberry jam and cooking spice alongside fine-grained but not very persistent tannins. Drink through 2020.
Dark garnet in the glass, this wine features aromas of black cherry, candle wax and freshly picked oregano. Soft tannins offer a foundation for flavors of cherry, cassis, mint, espresso bean and Mediterranean herbs. Fruit and savory notes continually make way for one another on the palate, concluding in an herbal and lemon zest finish.
Menthol, mature black currant, eucalyptus, espresso and clove aromas lead the nose. On the austere palate, ground pepper and licorice accent mature black cherry while assertive, close-grained tannins leave a firm finish. Drink after 2020.
Toasted nuts, seared marshmallows, roasted corn and dried apple play on the nose of this richly layered wine. The palate shows plenty of lively sea salt from front to back, along with concentrated citrus character and an apple-syrup ripeness.
A slight whiff of leathery funk in the nose carries into the palate, but it does not override the rich cherry fruit. Extra details of mineral and earth bring further interest, and more bottle age may serve to lengthen the finish.
A crisp and dry Vouvray, this still has those telltale honey flavors of delicious Chenin. It is rich and dense while also having great acidity and a tight, taut texture that will soften as the wine ages. It can be drunk now for its freshness, but it will be better from 2017.
Mature berry, dark cooking spice and blue flower are some of the aromas that emerge on this firm red. On the palate, ground pepper, clove and licorice accent a black cherry core while brisk acidity provides the racy framework.
Leather, pencil shavings and cedar provide an edge to this wine. It's otherwise soft and approachable in a mix of blackberry and black cherry, a seasoning of cinnamon and clove providing a pleasant hit of spice on the finish.
Aromas of wild berry, menthol, baking spice and a balsamic note lead the nose. On the tightly wound palate, bracing tannins support raw cherry, anise, tobacco and a hint of coffee alongside firm acidity.
Hints of bramble and earth lend savory nuances to sunny yellow peach and melon flavors in this bright vivaciously crisp Kabinett. Off-dry in style, it's balanced by a stream of focused tangerine acidity leading from midpalate through a moderately long finish. Start drinking now.
Concentrated rose petals, hibiscus and purple fruits meld with lava-rock aromas, all boosted by a touch of cola and smoke. Tart plum skins and Montgomery cherries play into the complex palate, which also shows turned earth and beef-jerky flavors.
This is 100% varietal, and sports interesting aromas of Provençal herbs. Peppery cranberry fruit is spicy and tart, fading through the midpalate into a lean, but lingering finish.
Fresh apple, pear and lemon flavors have a crystalline edge in this just-off-dry example of Elbling, an unusual white variety grown in the Mosel. It's zesty and spry, finishing with a delicious murmur of lime-pith bitterness. Drink now.
Spicy, meaty flavors like black pepper and beef broth blend with substantial fruit flavors in this medium-bodied, dry and rather sophisticated wine. It's almost a meal in itself, and well-balanced.
A dark-red color, aromas like dark chocolate, flavors recalling black cherry, and a dry rather than sweet taste make this a great wine for a special meal. It has layers of fruit, a bit of smoke, and lots of fine tannins that pile up for a rich mouthfeel and lingering finish.
Lychee and honeysuckle notes are concentrated and pure in this bright off-dry Gewürztraminer. It's elegantly structured, lifted by zesty tangerine acidity and hints of dusty pollen and mineral that linger on the finish. Drink now.
This blend holds 59% Syrah, 24% Grenache, 13% Petite Sirah and 4% Zinfandel. Slightly reserved at first, with some patience it begins to show violets, boysenberries and sandalwood on the nose. Aromatic purple flowers arise on the sip, along with dark chocolate and black currant. But the wine is rigidly structured, remaining quite wound-up even after many hours open.
The nose isn't very expressive on this big, brawny wine but the chewy, full-bodied palate offers blackberry jam, raisin, licorice, chocolate and orange peel alongside smooth tannins. It still has enough fruit richness to carry off the hearty alcohol but drink sooner rather than later.
This is a fine rich balanced wine. It has ripe fruits that suggest black currants, blackberries and a tight, stalky, mineral element. At the same time, it's generous, full of juicy acidity to contrast with the dusty tannin layer that keeps it all together. Drink now.
This gutsy blend of two-thirds Zinfandel plus Syrah and Tempranillo has a deep color, fresh spicy oak aromas, vivid fruit flavors and a lip-smacking layer of fine tannin. It should be just the thing with a grilled steak or pulled pork.
Everything is in place in this medium-bodied, smooth-textured and generously flavored wine. It has a good blend of subtle cherry, blackberry and raspberry flavors, plus hints of spice from barrel aging. Well balanced for drinking now through 2018, it's made with 63% Zinfandel, 23% Petite Sirah and 14% Syrah.
Lots of dark-fruit flavor, an ultrasmooth texture and a lingering finish raise this medium-bodied and value-priced wine well above average. Black cherry and blackcurrant flavors are sprinkled with spices recalling nutmeg and cardamom.
Based on the premier cru Chardonnay vineyards of Cuis, this soft and fresh wine is beautifully balanced. It has apple freshness, a tangy texture from minerality, and a bright and fruity aftertaste.
From a vineyard created by Antonia Ferreira, the grande dame of the Douro, this wine is produced by one of her descendants. It is fragrant, fresh and with great fruitiness. Initially soft and rounded it also has a fine bite of acidity and a tight, mineral aftertaste.
Dark berry, baking spice, herb, tobacco and a menthol note lead the nose along with a whiff of oak. The linear palate is still all wound up, showing more dark spice than fruit richness. Racy acidity and astringent tannins provide a firm backbone.
Here is an easy-drinking, off-dry and delightfully fragrant wine to enjoy as an apéritif or with lightly spiced Asian fare. Honeysuckle and orange blossom aromatics dovetail with pear and papaya fruit flavors. It's round and appealing, with a good lift to the finish.
Aromas of underbrush, scorched earth, eucalyptus, mature berry and dark spice lead the nose. There's not a lot of fruit richness but the spicy palate offers licorice, black pepper and sage alongside grippy tannins that leave a firm, drying finish.
Named Telhas (tiles) from the Roman tiles that are still found occasionally in this vineyard, this is a rich spicy wine that comes mainly from Viognier. That gives the wine a perfumed character with touches of ginger, along with ripe apricots and a fine fresh aftertaste. Drink this wine from 2017.
Polished and fragrant, this charming red offers alluring scents of freshly picked rose, red berry, tilled soil and a whiff of aromatic herb. Vibrant acidity and supple tannins balance the bright cherry, strawberry, white pepper and anise flavors. Enjoy through 2017.
While dry in style, sumptuous black cherry and cassis notes lend a plummy feel to this Lemberger. It's an uncomplicated welcoming wine that's a bit plush in mouthfeel but invigorated by bright cranberry acidity on the finish. Drink now.
It has been a while since we've reviewed Cuatro Pasos, but eight vintages later it's basically the same wine, which, for the price, means good value. This opens with earthy warm muddled berry aromas. The palate is flush and plump, reflective of a hot vintage, while blackberry and cassis flavors finish hefty. Drink now.
Fragrant and fresh, this vibrant wine offers alluring scents field flower and white stone fruit scents. The creamy palate delivers white peach, honeydew melon and citrus flavors, brightened with crisp acidity.
Blended with 9% Grenache, this is velvety-thick on the palate, with black licorice, black raspberry and a savory tone of grilled meat. Medium-bodied, it relatively restrained in the glass, not giving in to its denser, darker side.
A touch of smoke is all that appears on the nose of this tight and taut wine. Acidity and slight tannic grip provide a structure and frame its lovely, tart but dark fruit that recalls fresh blueberries tinged with peppery spice. Crunchy, classy and moreish.
This Grüner Veltliner's salty, yeasty savoriness comes with a tinge of sage and soy. Its slender palate, on the other hand, recalls zesty lime and lemon. Light and sprightly with spritz and verve, there is something weightless and animated here, with a lovely, savory, herbal finish.
The first King Estate rosé since 2008, this is as serious a wine as rosé can be. Deep in color, deep in flavor, it offers a rich mix of orange peel and orange liqueur, cherry kirsch, and a gentle citrus streak. It was produced entirely from estate-grown, biodynamic grapes.
Creamy, herbal freshness reminiscent of fern and fig leaf rises from the glass in this wine. That same combination of creaminess and verve pervades the concentrated palate. It's dry, sophisticated and wonderfully compact.
Bright raspberry fruit dominates here, backed with ample acidity. Give it a little breathing time and it fleshes out and lengthens. At this stage the fruit is clean and primary, but the overall structure suggests giving it another couple of years of bottle age for prime time enjoyment.
With 45% Mourvèdre and 35% Cinsault this has turned into a highly flavored and aromatic wine. It has great fruits and a rich texture that has a herbal edge. It is certainly a food rosé and with its up-front fruit, it could do with a few months to calm down. Drink from late 2017.
Fresh blueberry and plum play on nose and palate. Lively freshness permeates the glass, accentuating the wine's tart, precise fruitiness. It's medium bodied with moderate grip, lots of verve and a nervy, fresh and totally appetizing finish.
A screaming deal from Dan Lee and company, this dynamic Syrah shows plush blackberry, vanilla and caramel aromas. There's buoyant red and purple fruit on the palate, from boysenberry to black raspberry, kept fresh with lively acidity and accented with lavender and thyme.
The spicy, generous and almost floral aromas of new oak envelope this wine's ripe, red cherry fruit. The palate is smooth, rich and laced with cinnamon yet balanced by inherent freshness. Elegant now, it will taste better with a little bottle age, when the tannins are smooth. Drink 2019–2022.
From the vineyard owned by winemaker Bill Brosseau's family, this bottling shows black raspberry, strawberry, wet slate and rose petal scents on the nose. The palate is loaded with earthy black plum and other dark fruits, lifted by a star anise spiciness.
This is bursting with ripe luscious fruits, a generous assortment of pear, tangerine, apricot and more. It's a big full-bodied and juicy delight, ready right now. Drink up!
This rounded Chardonnay from winemaker Duncan Williams (also of Falkner in Temecula) shows creamy cherimoya and nectarine fruit, accented with cinnamon, clove and butter on the nose. The palate is delicate and supple, its salted almond and nectarine flavors riding a wave of vibrant acidity into the finish.
Initial charred aromas yield to aggressive cherry and maple scents. This is a wide, fully tannic load of a Malbec with toasty flavors of burnt wheat bread and maple to go with blackberry and cassis. Toast remains on the finish, which also tastes of licorice. Drink through 2023.
From a high-elevation, steeply sloped site, this lovely, balanced wine offers a wealth of white pepper, garrigue and blueberry aromas, hitting all the marks of cool-climate character. Dense and smooth, it reveals smoke and game elements as it unwinds toward the spicy finish.
Blackberry, brandied cherry and spice aromas lead to a wide palate with tannins that pierce like nails. This tastes a touch foxy and wild, while the finish feels centered and firm. Despite intense, abrasive tannins, this displays depth and complexity. Drink through 2022.
This bottling from a winery whose owners are originally from Brittany shows peppery spice, tart red fruit, rose petal and lava rock scents on the nose. The flavors range widely from white pepper and dill to fresh-pressed strawberry and red plum, with a slight hint of caramel. Varietally pure and very fresh.
Alluring smature orchard fruit, grilled herb, toasted nut and flint scents take center stage in this savory white, accented by a balsamic note. The round, creamy, palate mirrors the nose, offering juicy white peach, baked apple and celery flavors. A blast of candied tangerine closes the lingering finish.
Although the challenging vintage resulted in just a half-ton per acre of Chardonnay in this dry appellation (a third of its normal yield), this wine is fantastic. Flinty and smoky aromas lead to Gala apple, white peach and lemon peel on the nose, while the palate combines salt, grapefruit pith and seared apple flavors. A sharp line of acidity brings it all into balance.
Pressed yellow flower, flint and Mediterranean herb aromas fuse with citrus zest and a balsamic note. The round, savory palate doles out ripe apricot, creamy pear and juicy nectarine flavors, tangy acidity carrying a bitter almond tone long into the finish.
Rich and creamy poached pear, banana and coconut aromas show in a ripe but not overdone way in this blend of 46% Roussanne, 37% Marsanne and 17% Viognier. There is a strong textural grip to the palate, focusing its apple, cherimoya and lemon peel flavors.
Edgy berry aromas include notes of pencil lead and woody oak. The crisp bouncy acidic palate emphasizes freshness over weight. Plum, currant and oak-based flavors are spicy and snappy, while this maintains a spicy character on a dry finish. Drink through 2024.
This wine is a steal for its quality—well-rounded, expressive and complemented with additions of Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc, Syrah and Merlot. Cherry and vanilla flavors predominate, accented with cedar and tobacco, the texture remaining soft and smooth.
Veteran Kevin Judd has turned out another fine effort. Passion fruit and pea tendril aromas impart a welcome green edge that's never overwhelming, picking up layers of white grapefruit on the plump, medium-bodied palate. The finish is intense, long and citrusy.
This richly dense and full-bodied wine from a famous site offers grippy tannin and toasted oak, complementing spicy fruit highlights of dark cherry accented with vanilla.
Soft, billowy tannins buoy this wine's dense red fruit, accented with dried herb, cedar and pencil shaving flavors. Ripe and full bodied, its oak is integrated and quiet.
Baked berry and cherry aromas are ripe and come with accents of mocha, leather and caramel. This feels full but not heavy, with balance and cushion to the palate. Spiced black-fruit flavors show a tea-like note, while this is dry, spicy and a touch chocolaty on the finish. Drink through 2026.
Bold strokes of blackberry, cassis and bramble persist throughout this surprisingly youthful late-release Cabernet Sauvignon. It's rich on the palate yet balanced neatly, boasting brisk acidity and ripe but grippy tannins. Two years of maturation in French oak contribute to a long finish marked with sweet tobacco and baking spices.
Bright, compressed fruit stars in this approachable and affordable Pinot Noir that's rounded with tannin and focused acidity. Cranberry, orange, cherry and cola flavors highlight its medium-bodied power and concentration.
While lemony-fresh with a streak of crushed-stone minerality, this medium-bodied white lacks the exuberance and spice expected of Gewürztraminer. It's refreshing and pleasing nonetheless, with a spray of lingering white blossom perfume on the finish.
Berry and cassis aromas turn more saucy with airing. This has a sticky mouthfeel with protruding acids, while flavors of plum and citrus finish short. This is good if you're looking for the basics.
Whiffs of clay and fallen leaves lend an earthy tone to this ripe, rich wine. The palate is lush, almost pulpy, with black cherry and plum flavors but brisk acidity and grippy tannins finish taut and tight.
This wine suggests green, savory herbs along with cherry and currant. It's elegant in style, velvety in feel, and delivers good concentration to the fruit flavors plus barrel notes (20% new French) on the lingering finish. The variety gets lost with the herbal notes taking over, but it still offers enjoyment.
Firm, dry tannins behind this wine give a hard edge that will need time. The wine is powered by its structure, solid and only just fruity. Wait until at least 2017 to allow more fruitiness to come through, although the wine will likely always be tough.
Half fermented in oak with the rest in stainless steel, this wine offers lees, butter and vanilla, with a dry, medium-bodied feel.
This round, sticky blend smells burnt and like underbrush, and is very woody, with milk chocolate and plastic aromas. Thick and sticky on the palate, with lactic oak, sweet spice, carob and berry flavors, this is dominated by creamy oak and generic fruit.
Stalky aromas suggest weedy underbrush and celery, with whiffs of salted appetizers and sweat. The meaty, impenetrable palate delivers rubber, mocha, and a confectionary note alongside chewy tannins and searing alcohol.
Herbaceous, crisp and fruity, this fresh wine has citrus, juicy apple and a hint of yellow fruits as well as bright acidity. It's totally ready to drink.
Jammy plum and currant aromas are light on complexity. This blend is crisp, fresh and ultimately modest in feel, with black cherry and plum flavors. A clean finish makes it good for everyday drinking.
Lightly herbal aromas and a touch of animal blend with oak-based notes of sweet plastic and vanilla on the nose. The palate is round but slightly flabby, with moderate acidity. Lactic oak creates a plastic-like flavor that is derivative of the nose, while the finish is drab.
This tightly stalky wine offers fresh red fruits and aromatic acidity. With tannins right up front, it is still young and needing to develop. The wine's name comes from the shirt numbers of the two French rugby players who feature on the label. Drink from 2016.
Pressed apple and pear notes are accented with penetrating layers of smoke, nuts and clove on this full-bodied Chardonnay. Tart lemon acidity lends freshness to the midpalate and into a spry finish.
A tribute to the year—1935—of the founding of the Monségur cooperative, this wine has structure, dry tannins and ripe, plummy fruits. It's firm, showing fresher black currant flavors and acidity at the end.
This stalky wine shows wood aging as much as fruit. Toast and some bitter extraction are contrasted with tight black currant fruits. It will soften and turn into an approachable fruity wine.
Fresh and fruity, this wine is already developing attractively. The wood aging gives some toasty character although the black currant fruitiness makes the wine accessible and bright. Drink from late 2015.
This structured, firm wine lives up to the fortifications at its namesake château. It's a dark wine, not quite ripe with some green fruit flavors. Acidity and dry tannins are very present and need to soften. Let it wait and drink from 2017.
Aromas of spiced plum and exotic spice lead the nose on this robust wine. On the palate, scorching alcohol overwhelms dried black cherry and licorice, throwing the wine completely off balance. Astringent tannins and a green note of powdered sage create an extremely bitter finish.
Plump melon and stone fruit aromas are a touch broken down and mealy. This Godello feels fleshy and round, with pulpy weight. Tangerine and tropical fruit flavors weigh in on the heavy side, while the finish is chunky and pithy in flavor.
There's a reductive funk at first on the nose, with singed rubber and creosote, but that quickly gives way to cherry, boysenberry and brown spices. Flavors are dominated by tart cherry and cedar, with hints of slate-driven, earthy minerals.
A blend of six different varieties with Chardonnay (35%) and Marsanne (19%) taking the lead, this medium-sweet wine suggests tangerine, sweet corn and crème fraîche, with some of the aromas and flavors seeming to tussle.
Fragrant layers of cinnamon, toast and vanilla adorn this intensely ripe, fleshy red wine. Blackberry and plum flavors are ruddy on the palate, but brightened by a zip of acidity and fine, chalky tannins on the finish.
For the first release of this wine, the oak unfortunately is almost completely overwhelming. Vanilla, green wood, mocha and mint overpower almost any sense of varietal aroma and flavor.
Full in flavor and body, this sturdy wine based on Viognier, Sauvignon Blanc and Pinot Gris with a dash of Chardonnay has crisp acidity to keep it lively. It smells like pears and honeydew melon and tastes dry but generous and a little buttery, and finishes clean.
Despite the label indication that this wine is Sauvignon Blanc, it does in fact have 20% Sémillon. That addition fills out the wine while retaining the natural herbaceous character with its grassy texture and strongly citrus flavors. Drink now.
This wine offers notes of black olive, sweet plum, confection and herbs. The flavors are lighter in style with gritty tannins.
Earthy, syrupy aromas come with a spot of green and a touch of earthy mulch. This is bulky and flabby in feel as it struggles for balance. Thick berry flavors are matched by green, herbal, mossy notes, while the finish is chewy in feel and baked in flavor.
This blends nutty notes with aromas of chemical and saline. The palate is tight, sharp and citric, while flavors of briny apricot come with bitter as well as nutty notes. A dry, salty finish feels angular and sharp.
Crafted from a field blend of varieties, including Carignan, Syrah and Durif, this holds a syrupy sense of meaty bacon and plum raisin at its center. Midweight and fairly straightforward in terms of flavor, it finishes fast and not overly complex.
Light in color, this suggests berry, herbs and wood. It's airy in feel with tart cranberry-juice flavors and a puckering finish.
Woody aromas of sawdust and maple take over a lightly herbal bouquet. Plum, raspberry and chocolaty oak flavors finish herbal and resiny.
This is a bargain-priced blend of Grenache, Syrah, Carignan, Mourvèdre and Cinsault. The flavors are ripe and plummy, accented by hints of garrigue, while the tannins are modest and supple.
The varieties in the blend include Grenache Blanc, Roussanne and Viognier. They come together to offer hints of pineapple, pear and citrus. There's a silky texture on the palate, then a clean, crisp finish.
Plush, ripe apple and apricots are dusted in savory, earthy notes of slate and spice. It's a dancing, delicately framed wine with a balance of soft, sweet fruit and zesty acidity. Drink now.
Drink this maturing wine over the next year or two. Leather, chocolate and cherry notes mingle easily, the texture is smooth and the finish is silky.
Muskateller is a powerhouse Muscat grape, chock full of buoyant stone fruit, melon and floral aromas. It's an unabashedly fruity, flamboyantly forward grape, but this off-dry example is brisk and balanced.
Aromas of Spanish broom, honeysuckle and a yeasty note lead the nose of this Sicilian sparkler from Mount Etna. The palate offers ripe apple, candied citrus and bitter walnuts alongside persistent bubbles and zesty acidity.
Because of the cool Atlantic climate, the Gascogne region is home to many bright, crisp wines. This is fruity, fresh and utterly crisp while also having some hints of melon and peach flavors. A touch of attractive minerality gives the wine texture. Drink now.
Ripe, oaky and showing aromas of coconut, vanilla, raisin and prune, this easily approachable Monastrell is full, dark and stretched wide, with proper acidity keeping things fenced in and focused. Sun-baked black-fruit flavors finish spicy and peppery, with mild heat.
Pear, melon and anise aromas lead the way, followed on the palate by a broad, soft mouthfeel and flavors that add peppery spice on the long finish.
This creamy feeling wine is dry and spicy on the nose more than bold and fruity. Candied cherry, raspberry and milk chocolate flavors carry mild spice accents, while the finish is lightly oaked in flavor and a touch chewy in texture.
Baked plum, brick dust, stewed tomato and leather aromas are rugged but good. Chewy and only moderately tannic, this basic Monastrell delivers raspberry and plum flavors sweetened by hints of brown sugar and molasses. A lasting, chocolaty finish is easygoing, with a shot of acidity for balance.
Very perfumed with wood and strong berry flavors, this stalky, structured wine has tannins that are already well integrated into the spicy, juicy red fruits. Bold flavors and tasty fruitiness are well balanced with the texture and dry core. Drink now.
Supple in juicy blackberry and plum, this light- to medium-bodied Merlot contains 10% Cabernet Franc and offers a mouthful of dry, dusty tannins before finishing in a punch of black peppery spice.
Aged in new barriques, this opens with aromas of oak and oak-driven spices and a whiff of savory herbs. The palate is dominated by oak, vanilla and coffee that muffle the dried dark-cherry and mineral flavors. It has a linear quality but lacks fruit richness and is still in the vice-like grip of wood tannins.
Piercing lemon and lime notes are offset by juicy peach and pear flavors in this fresh, easy-drinking Riesling. Off dry in style, it's fruity and forward, with a crisp, refreshing finish.
From the owner of Domaine du Pégau in Châteauneuf-du-Pape, this is a négociant-style Côtes du Rhône. It's medium-bodied and crisp, with bright red fruit reminiscent of raspberries and cherries and a touch of herbes de Provence.
Rubber, menthol, black olive and dusty oak aromas dominate the nose on this stable Carmenère. Olive, blackberry and herbal flavors are typical of the variety, while the finish is clean, powerful and in good shape.
This opens with earthy, smoky aromas of coffee grinds and blackberry along with toasted marshmallow. The palate is thick and mouthfilling, with baked berry, spice and chocolate flavors. The finish is minty and herbal, with moderate heat and burn.
A brick color on the rim agrees with very tasty and mature flavors to indicate this wine should be enjoyed now. It smells like dried leaves on the forest floor, and tastes rather beefy and savory in flavor with hints of Worcestershire sauce and balsamic vinegar. It is medium to full bodied and smooth in texture.
Light colored and fruity, this has the typical Négrette polish, aromas and dry tannins accompanied by red berry fruits, with a richer, full aftertaste. The wine is made to drink young, so drink from 2016.
This wine has firm tannins certainly. However its main character is the delicious, juicy fruit that just bursts out of the glass. A fresh character suggests this wine will develop quickly, despite the tannic background. Drink from 2016.
Sourced from a range of vineyards across the Napa Valley, including Atlas Peak, Rutherford and Oakville, this intense wine is informed by thick-grained tannins and pronounced oak. Dark blackberry fruit and clove season it well, along with a finish steep in mocha. The blend includes a small amount of Merlot.
Black plum, violet and baking spice aromas emerge in the glass. The soft palate offers blueberry, blackberry, grilled herb and white pepper alongside sleek tannins. It's smooth and accessible so enjoy soon.
Fresh black fruits give this wine a bright start in life. It is rich with some tannins and dark spice. Dominant berry-fruit flavors are balanced with acidity and a dry, firm aftertaste. Drink from the end of 2015.
A 50-50 blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese, this has a subdued nose that doesn't give much away. The palate offers dried black cherries, blackberry extract, vanilla, licorice and new oak but the fruit is drying up quickly, leaving an abrupt, astringent finish.
This fresh blend of Négrette with both Cabernets is fruity and lightly crisp with refreshing final acidity. It's bright, while also having a ripe character that allows it to broaden out. Drink now.
A mineral layering of waxy pear gives this wine a light, crisp complexion, punctuated by subtle, oaky spice and plenty of vibrant lemon. Light on the palate, it'll serve well for larger gatherings.
Baked strawberry and a bittersweet note of cherry play off the palate around a medium-bodied frame of subtle tannin and oak. Dried cranberry comes in as a secondary detail, before the wine finishes in a blaze of leather and black tea.
A freshly textured wine that has a bite of spice to contrast with its tangy lemon acidity. It's fresh, fruity and ready to drink now.
This blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 15% Merlot, 10% Petit Verdot and 5% Cabernet Franc starts with aromas of black fruit, earth, cedar wood and exotic spices. The densely concentrated, one-dimensional palate delivers fleshy black cherry accented with black pepper and licorice alongside round tannins. It's already accessible so enjoy soon.
Big, hard tannins and high alcohol mark this Zinfandel. Bone dry, it's stuffed with blackberry jam, sage and black pepper flavors that finish spicy and long. It's an excellent example of the Maple Vineyard terroir, and calls for pairing with rich barbecue and fatty fare.
This full-bodied white leads with typical varietal aromas that recall white roses, lychee and spice. The round, low-acid palate delivers creamy exotic fruit layered with notes of clove and nutmeg. A soft, lingering finish closes on a sweet note punctuated with the warmth of evident alcohol.
This is a fine introduction to an outstanding Oregon Pinot Noir vintage. Forward and instantly accessible, it plays off pretty cherry fruit flavors and aromatics. Tannins are fully ripe and the acidity has kept pace.
Full and rich, this wine brings out smooth apple and pear flavors that are sustained by hints of wood aging. It has a fresher side with citrus acidity giving the rounder textures a lift. Worth aging, it can be drunk from 2015.
There was no oak used on this stainless steel-fermented Sauvignon Blanc, but it does contain a splash of Viognier. It's dry, crisp in acidity and savory in lime, orange, kumquat and vanilla flavors that finish long and clean. It will pair with everything from bruschetta with olive tapenade to fried chicken, Chinese food and sushi. Easy to find, with 190,000 cases produced.
Smoky, herbal aromas add complexity to pretty floral notes on this elegantly composed semisweet Riesling. The palate is rich with peach and nectarine flavors, along with a shock of citrus acidity, but maintains a subtle line of smoky, dusty earthiness through the finish.
There's a hint of sweetness here, but the rich flavors of strawberry nougat, along with a creamy texture, carry it beautifully. A lick of vanilla comes through in the finish. Drink it solo or with a spicy cold noodle salad.
With classic raspberry, cherry and sandalwood flavors, wrapped into a delicately crisp mouthfeel, this is a classic Russian River Pinot for drinking now. Everything about it suggests beef, whether it's in a taco or a full-fledged steak.
Smooth, rich, wood-aged Chardonnay dominates this ripe, complex blend. Soft and rounded, it provides the yellow fruit flavors and toastiness. The Arinto in the blend supplies the freshness. Together, they make wine a for aging. Drink from 2016.
The magnificent Tomar convent complex was once home to the Knights Templar. This wine, with its firm tannins and dense fruit, brings out the structure of Touriga Nacional and Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend. Spice, wood aging and rich berry fruits all promise medium-term aging. Drink from 2015.
With aromas of wood aging, this is a tropical fruit and spice flavored wine. It displays a strong sense of texture and freshness. It is already showing richness as well as a good sense of style. Drink from 2015.
Great streaks of acidity cut across the ripe fruit. The wine has touches of toast from the 20% wood aging, along with a steely, more mineral character. These combine well with the peach and ripe apple flavors. Drink from 2015.
This elegant wine opens with fragrances of white flowers and green apple. The silky palate offers ripe pear, Golden Delicious apple and mineral alongside crisp acidity that leaves a clean, bright finish.
Here is a gentle, evocative Pinot Noir, with a pretty, almost delicate mix of flavors. Raspberry, black cherry, dried leaves and black olive swirl together, with a lick of chocolate in the finish.
This Pinot's parts haven't found each other yet. There's big, ripe raspberry and cherry fruit, sweet, toasty oak, brisk acids and firm tannins, yet they form an unruly confederation. Stash this in the cellar until at least 2020.
A well-balanced Pinot Bianco, it has subdued aromas of apples and freshly cut flowers. The palate delvers creamy white peach and Golden Delicious apple alongside crisp acidity. Pair this with fried calamari or pasta topped with clams and mussels.
Made entirely with Sangiovese, it has aromas of ripe black fruit, tilled earth, toasted oak sweet vanilla and a hint of leather. The rich palate offers toasted oak, black berries, espresso and coffee alongside dusty, drying tannins
Laden with wood aromas, this is a firm, dry wine. The fruit can cope with the considerable wood flavors, suggesting a wine that will be smooth, rich and velvety. It has weight now, but needs to age. Drink from 2016.
Richly endowed with ripe Merlot, this spicy, smoky, full-bodied wine is already developing. It is smooth, concentrated and deliciously juicy. Spice and firm tannins are well in the background, leaving room for acidity and black fruits. Drink from 2017.
This is a warm and ripe Merlot-dominated wine. The chateau's position on the hill of Fronsac gives the wine structure and a mineral texture that does promise aging. With blackberry fruitiness developing well, drink from 2016.
The acidity is strong and the cherry, herb tea and white pepper flavors are elegant. It grows on you as you sip, showing more and more complexity. It's a fine wine for drinking now with Pinot-friendly fare, such as roast lamb or a wild mushroom risotto with grated cheese.
Whiffs of smoke and grain lend a savory bent to lemon and herb aromas on this full bodied, dry Riesling. Searing lemon-lime acidity and a minerally palate contribute to its lean, linear style.
Juslyn's wines are made in a tannic style. The suggestion here is ageabiity. This bottle, which is mainly Cabernet Sauvignon but also contains Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, is not drinkable now, unless you're immune to astringency. It's future is uncertain, but you might try aging it until 2020.
Lots of rich, ripe raspberry and cherry jam fruit in this dry, briskly acidic Pinot Noir. Oak shows up in the form of buttered cinnamon toast. It's a little irregular in tannins, but delicious for drinking now, after decanting.
Made from a blend of 90% Sangiovese and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon, this richly structured wine opens with a aromas of mature black berries, vanilla and black spices. The palate offers black cherry, prune, espresso and black spices alongside bracing, drying tannins.
This is a smooth, ripe wine, just hinting at wood. Honey and lemon flavors are cut by tight, mineral acidity. It's perfumed from the Muscadelle in the blend, giving a rich wine that is developing fast. Drink from 2015.
Floral aromas suggest yellow spring flowers and whiffs of tropical fruit. The juicy fruit palate offers apples, pineapple, peach, citrus and almond notes brightened by crisp acidity.
This fragrant Lugana opens with aromas of Spanish broom, pressed flower petals, ripe stone fruit, and hints of Mediterranean herbs. The savory palate offers juicy peach, green apple, lemon drop and mineral alongside fresh acidity. White almond marks the finish.
It has aromas of pressed yellow flowers, stone fruit and Granny Smith apples. The juicy palate offers Bartlett pear, white peach, citrus and white almond brightened by crisp acidity.
This medium-bodied, well-balanced wine has peppery, light-smoke aromas, modest rhubarb flavors and interesting white pepper and raspberry notes. It has personality and a rustic, authentic appeal.
Aromas of ripe plum, sunbaked earth and toast lead the way on this structured red. The palate offers dried black cherry, ground pepper and toasted oak while dusty tannins give it a firm, slightly astringent finish.
Made with 85% Carignano and 15% Syrah, this boasts aromas of mature black cherry, raspberry and Mediterranean herb. The soft palate doles out ripe black currant, licorice and black pepper alongside velvety tannins.
Although this Garnacha Blanca shows rustic, cidery aromas, it displays a balanced, layered, round palate with vital acidity. Salty, savory peach and apple flavors are true to white Garnacha, while a long, salty finish is full of energy.
Fruity and bold, this opens with direct aromas of cherry, strawberry and pomegranate that are accented by hints of sweet pea, violet and lavender. The medium-weight palate offers ample lifting acidity and a finish of tart red berries and watermelon rind.
Lightly tannic and packed with raspberry flavors, this delicious wine has just the right balance between the ripe fruits and bright acidity. The wine is totally ready to drink.
This Moldovan Cabernet Sauvignon has aromas of cherry vanilla, plum and cassis. In the mouth it has soft flavors of black currants, prunes and fresh black plums before the persistent finish.
At an impressive 13-years-old, this deeply golden-hued wine opens with subtle aromas of toasted nut, pressed acacia flower and honey. The round, evolved palate still boasts freshness while the tertiary flavors include lemon zest, ginger, smoky mineral and a hint of marzipan.
Alluring aromas of Spanish broom, lemon and orchard fruit lead the nose while the juicy palate doles out mature peach, nectarine zest, toasted hazelnut and flinty mineral. Bright acidity lifts the rich flavors.
Max Reserva is the easiest, most fruity of the Errazuriz Chardonnay lineup for 2014. Aromas of vanilla wafer, barrel toast, smoke and white fruits announce a smooth but simple palate. Peach, melon and toasty oak are the key flavors, while this finishes a touch salty.
This is a chunkier, somewhat rustic cousin to Pinot Noir, often used to bulk up a sparkling wine. Here, on its own, it's generously loaded with pomegranate, earth and green tea flavors. The aromatics capture some of the rose petal bouquet of its more delicate relation.
Fresh, primary blackberry and cherry flavors are streaked by a fresh herbal tinge in this especially food friendly Pinot Noir. Soft tannins and a rounded mouthfeel make it approachable now through 2020.
White flowers and peach aromas start this fuller-bodied white from Santorini. Spice, lemon marmalade and honey flavors are backed by a brisk acidity and finish with a lightly nutty spin. Pair with heartier dishes like lamb or cream-based chicken.
The nose is subdued but the palate shows the effortless, weightless charm of Sylvaner, with hints of green pear and lime as well as notes of stone and earth. It offers expressive slenderness.
Round and ripe, this is a balanced, complex and perfumed wine. With its acidity beautifully in place, it is fresh while also having some spice, toast and minerality. Drink from 2017.
Here's a delicately scented wine that offers aromas suggesting mature orchard fruit, botanical herb and wild flower. The subtle palate is a bit more reserved, showing yellow apple, nectarine, saline and a hint of bitter nut alongside bright acidity.
Star anise and vibrant floral aromas give this Robola-Assyrtiko blend an elegant character. On the palate, the wine offers fresh fruit and clean, refreshing acidity. This wine will appeal to many and has a versatile pairing profile.
Fresh pressed black raspberry and light lavender and lilac show on the tart and peppery nose of this bottling from the Riboli family's broad collection. The structure is chalky and thick on the palate, with flavors of olallieberry paste, blueberry and wet clay, all quite tasty though not extremely complex.
Deep cola, blackberry, blueberry pie, vanilla ice cream, soft caramel and root beer float aromas show on the nose of this juicy, easy-to-enjoy bottling. It's jammy with blueberry and black cherry, followed by rich caramel, chocolate, a touch of anise and vanilla long into the finish.
Sourced from a single block, this is a tart wine with delicate fruit flavors of rhubarb and cranberry. It does not have the depth nor stuffing of the previous vintage. Some pleasant aromatics of orange peel and citrus add interest.
Hints of jalapeño and bell pepper run alongside lime and apple aromas, while this feels secure. Lemon, apple and a dash of briny salt fill out the flavor profile, while this finishes similarly, with firm acidity.
Here the fruit seems to stay in the watermelon/strawberry range, not under-ripe, but more in a high-acid, Euro style. The oak aging (18 months) cloaks it in a lush coat of milk chocolate.
Kirsten's 2014 Rieslings each share a core of minerality that prevails over primary fruit, but this dry bottling is particularly savory in style. It's refreshingly spry with layers of smoke and chalk notes meandering amidst sheer streaks of fresh, white grapefruit and apple. The finish is brisk and clean.
Fragrant white flower and ripe orchard fruit aromas take center stage. The fresh palate offers mature yellow apple, pineapple, aromatic herb and a light toasted note while a hint of oak-driven spice accents the finish.
The nose is non-distinct but the palate follows with fresh, bright apple and tart greengage fruit. The palate is willowy, subtle and winning.
The aroma recalls ripe, juicy pear peel. Likewise, the palate sings with ripe pear notes, framed by a phenolic texture and countered by lively freshness. This wine is brisk, clean and fruity.
Aromas of melon, fennel, hay and tomato vine float out of the glass. The crisp, creamy palate offers white peach, lemon and Mediterranean herb alongside fresh acidity. A mineral note energizes the finish.
This dark, very ripe Crianza smells extracted, jammy and slightly soupy, with aromas of raisin, pipe tobacco and blackberry. The palate is heavy and a touch hollow, with baked berry, vanilla, licorice and resiny flavors. An oak-based finish tastes ripe, succulent and like mocha.
Extremely ripe fruit flavors fuel this full-bodied, no-holds barred wine. The aromas are like blackberry jam and raspberry syrup, and the flavors are almost that extreme, but the wine is technically dry. A very viscous texture wraps it up.
Coming from one of the region's more picturesque vineyards, this bottling, which is enhanced with 19% Picpoul Blanc, 2% Roussanne and 2% Viognier, leans a tad tropical on the nose, with orange peel cutting into banana, apple custard and tuberose. There's sizzling acidity throughout the palate, with flavors of lemon curd, apple peel and grapefruit pith.
Big, powerful and confidently ripe, this full-bodied wine oozes with luscious blackberry, wild sage and blueberry flavors that seemingly melt in the mouth. A great example of the late harvest style without being sweet, it's dry, concentrated and persistent on the finish.
Forest floor, truffle, new leather, ripe berry and a balsamic note are some of the aromas you'll find in this delicious red. The fresh, chewy palate doles out fleshy black cherry, chopped mint and white pepper notes, while big, round tannins provide structure. It's already enjoyable but will offer years of fine drinking. Enjoy 2018–2024.
Truffle, leather, mature black-skinned fruit and carob aromas emerge from this powerful red. The full-bodied palate delivers succulent wild cherry, black raspberry, licorice, pipe tobacco and grilled herb flavors with big, chewy tannins. Drink 2019–2027.
A touch of flinty reduction clings to the nose but soon relaxes into soft notes of ripe black cherry. The palate is textured and dry, harmonious with fruit and the gentle ripple and crunch of slightly rustic but utterly pleasant tannins. This seems to be its perfect drinking window now: generous with fruit, utterly harmonious and starting to mellow. The finish is fresh, clean and totally moreish. If you can resist at all, this may well continue to develop. Drink now through 2025.
A blend of barrels selected from several sites, this is a plush, easy-to-love wine. It's shy on the nose at first, just hinting at wild strawberry and herbal aromas. Soft, with a touch of bitter black tea it fades into a slow finish.
Seared lemon, hazelnut, brown butter and sandalwood with a graphite minerality come through on the nose of this complex wine from Jonathan Nagy. The palate offers hints of herbs and chamomile at first, then washes of citrusy acidity and apple notes, all held together with steely tension.
Fresh blackberry and boysenberry aromas meld with rose petal and hickory smoke on the warm entry of this bottling from Jonathan Nagy. The palate is packed with peppery spice, bright red cherry, thyme and root beer flavors.
Named for the special format of small oak barrel it's aged in, this has soaked up the oak impressively. Hints of vanilla and graham crackers accent mixed berry fruit, while the finish is long and mouthwatering. There's ample concentration, yet the wine never seems heavy. Drinkable now, but why rush things? Drink 2020–2030.
This purple-tinted Carignan is a concentrated number with familiar varietal and regional aromas of latex, graphite, schist, tire rubber and black fruits. In the mouth, this is chewy and full bodied, but not heavy. Oaky spicy blackberry and nutmeg flavors linger on a mildly woody, extracted and gritty finish. Best to give this a few more years so drink through 2022.
An outstanding effort in a difficult vintage, these old vines (the oldest were planted in 1889) have turned out a super wine. Complex aromas and flavors range from smoke, thyme blossom and licorice to apricots and black cherries. this is medium to full in body, with crisp acids and supple tannins that impart a silky feel to the long finish. Drink now–2025.
One of the plusses to having a cash-flow brand like Yellow Tail in the portfolio is that it gives the owners the opportunity to properly age their high-end wines prior to release. At 10 years old, this has acquired a veneer of silkiness and elegance that enfolds the cassis and red-currant fruit. There's no shortage of smoky, vanilla and brown-sugar inflected oak either. Drink now–2025.
Owned by art collector Philippe Raoux, who has filled the park of the chateau with impressive sculptures, this estate produces serious and complex wines. This latest release continues in that tradition. It is rich, structured and full of swathes of black fruit. The wine will take time, so wait until 2021.
This is a structured wine that still has serious layers of ripe fruit and rich tannins. The black currant from the Cabernet Sauvignon is balanced by the jammy richness of the delicious Merlot. It's an impressive wine that continues the progress of this estate, owned by Lafite-Rothschild. Drink from 2024.
This second wine of whites from both Haut-Brion and La Mission Haut-Brion is both rich and intensely crisp. It has a fine blend between great acidity and grapefruit fruit and a more tropical element. The tangy texture is taut with a mineral edge. Drink from 2020.
Under the ownership of Jacky Lorenzetti, president of one of France's top rugby clubs, this estate is now performing impressively. The wine is finely structured with dark tannins and tight acidity and a hint of minerality. It is Merlot dominated, although it is the 40% Cabernet Sauvignon that brings out the black-currant fruitiness. Drink from 2022.
Wild berry, dark spice and Mediterranean herb aromas lift out of the glass, accented by a whiff of new leather. The enveloping, full-bodied palate doles out fleshy black cherry, star anise, pipe tobacco and cinnamon notes, framed by chewy tannins. Drink 2020–2027.
Apricot compote and candied peach shine on nose and palate with great intensity. The overtly floral notes of rose have given way to a more subtle perfume that highlights the aromas of peach above all. This is very concentrated, very rich, but also precise and fresh. It is citrus tanginess that allows this to be sweet yet still refreshing. Medium to sweet finish.
This stellar bottling offers chaparral character on the nose, from wild mint and thyme to fennel and mountain tea, along with turned earth and raspberry scents. The plate kicks off with strawberry fruit and hibiscus, then dives into a deeper expression of grippy black plum skins, cardamom spice and boisterous acidity.
Earthy and dark fruit-driven, this is a richly rewarding, fruity wine, ripe in blackberry, clove and cocoa. From an estate vineyard named for Benovia proprietor's two mothers, Martha and Eleanor, it offers the appellation's classic elements of savory clove and cola.
This is a richly satisfying wine with beautiful Granny Smith apple and honeyed caramel flavors. Fennel and wildflower accents add to its complexity, broadened by nutmeg spice. It's full bodied and balanced, delivering both ripeness and structure.
Great fruit concentration and grace make this wine a winner. It feels medium-bodied despite its high degree of ripeness, showing that balance is attainable with significant power. It has ripe, plummy aromas, fresh red cherry and cranberry flavors, supportive tannins and excellent acidity.
This second wine of Château Palmer is dense and structured. With ripe swathes of black fruits and juicy Merlot showing strongly, it already displays the potential of the vintage. Generous and ripe, the wine has a fine level of perfumed tannin. Drink from 2023.
There is something floral and tender, even creamy on the nose. The palate on the one side has a creamy apricot and peach aspect, on the other a totally taut and brisk lemon-lime streak. This makes for tension and interest. This is concentrated and exciting, dry and very, very enjoyable. Drink now through 2025.
Tender notes of honeysuckle and rose rise from the glass. On the palate they perfume the generous peach and mirabelle plum fruit, supported by some residual sweetness. This strikes a very harmonious balance between tender opulence an sprightly freshness. The finish is intense, tangy, medium sweet and superbly balanced.
Chopped herb, wild berry, spice and truffle aromas slowly take shape in the glass. The palate shows both concentration and elegance, offering fleshy raspberry, crushed cherry, licorice and crushed mint flavors, bolstered by firm but refined tannins. Drink 2019–2027.
Chive and onion skin aromas blend with hints of mint, marcona almond and vanilla on the nose of this bottling from winemaker Bruce McGuire. From one of Pierre Lafond's special sites, it has a savory palate that recalls salted peanuts, seared lemon and popcorn on the finish. Lemony acidity cuts through it all.
The nose is a very enticing mix of rose petal and peach, grapefruit zest and musky spice. The palate echoes the same flavors and is both intense and concentrated. There is residual sweetness making all the fruit flavors luscious and plump, countered by sprightly fresh acidity that results in an over all medium-sweet wine. The flavors are precise and clean and so is the finish.
Garden herb and forest floor aromas make a case for this wine to be considered the producer's “Finest Selection” (the “FS” in “OFS”). On the palate, wild strawberry, black cherry and berry are the story, while powerful spice adds intrigue to the velvety texture, roundness and full-bodied concentration.
Richly textured and generously flavored, this wine shows how good Livermore Cabernet can be. Aged in new Hungarian barrels, it has cedar and spice aromas, seductive ripe fruit flavors and a mouth-filling, palate-soothing viscosity bolstered by loads of fine-grained tannins. Best from 2018.
This resplendent white offers a wealth of wet stone minerality and crisp, lemony acidity, with just a subtle hint of oak. From old vines, it boasts tangerine and anise flavors on the palate, with tropical notes of guava and mango and a jolt of nuttiness.
This Chardonnay breaks away from the typical varietal profile, with aromas of freshly cut grass and lemongrass. Delightful tropical fruit flavors of mango, lychee and guava dominate the palate. The zesty, clean and crisp finish is characterized by flavors of lemon pith and lime juice.
Menthol, crushed flower, red raspberry and savory herb aromas unfold in the glass. The palate conveys juicy red cherry, white pepper and cinnamon alongside supple tannins. It's surprisingly accessible for such a young Barolo. Drink 2016–2022.
Aromas recall fennel, grilled herb, leather, mocha and a whiff of balsam. Reflecting the heat of the vintage, the palate is already evolved but still shows dried black cherry and black pepper. Drink through 2017.
This highly accessible, reasonably priced Chardonnay sees no new oak. It offers aromatics of orange blossom and fresh-squeezed lemon followed by a lean texture of more lemon, honeysuckle and melon. Stock up.
A delightful bottle with notes of stone fruit, buttered popcorn and toasty spice. It's light in style, displaying both nuance and delicacy, with enough acidity to keep it all in vivid focus.
Leather, truffle, black cherry, grilled herb and a whiff of mocha lead the nose on this structured but straightforward wine. The palate is still rather closed but delivers crushed red cherry, white pepper and grilled herb alongside fresh acidity and young, raspy tannins that need time to soften. Drink 2018–2028.
This starts with aromas of rose, crushed violet, red berry and mint. The palate delivers red and black cherry accented with notes of cocoa and mocha alongside youthfully assertive tannins.
From the first whiff of cherry, cranberry and caramel you know you are in for a treat. Flavors of clove, marzipan and grilled peach add nuance to the red fruit driven palate. The smooth tannins persist without overpowering the bright fruit and spice tones.
From a classic producer who continues to do the variety justice, this Merlot is complex and concentrated. A taste of bright red plum and berry fruit intermingles with toasty oak and supple vanilla. The tannins are soft and a playful hint of herb marks the finish.
This is still a young wine, with its ripe red fruits and black cherry flavors. The taste of licorice mingles with the fruit and balances with the smoky toast flavors. It's a rich wine that needs time, so drink from 2016.
Vanilla and lemon curd aromas bring nuance and depth to the the complex bouquet of this wine. Full bodied with a silky texture, tones of green apple and mango show bright on the palate, leading to a splash of minerality on the finish.
This is a powerful and ripe wine that is full of tannins that are now mature enough to support the broad, ripe black-fruite character. A blend of Aragonez, Alicante Bouschet and Tinta Calada, it has a dense structure, with a full-bodied juicy aftertaste. Drink now, but the wine will be better after 2015.
Aromas of this brawny wine suggest black plum, berry, violet, leather and dill. Notes of licorice, tobacco and black pepper back up the sour cherry fruit. Big with round tannins, this is just reaching its ideal drinking window. Drink through 2019.
Jammy blackberry, rubber, graphite and raw oak aromas set up a full, weighty palate. Flavors of mint, licorice, creamy oak and chocolate accent brambly black-fruit flavors, while a minty finish simmers with power and subtle warmth. Drink through 2016.
This 100% Merlot is juicy in black cherry and plum flavors, followed by outbursts of dusty tannin that provide just enough grip. The savory cinnamon and clove aspects are backed by toasty oak, a silky texture and plenty of acidity.
Made from 68-year-old Nerello Mascalese vines and aged in terra-cotta amphorae, this ripe and powerful wine offers aromas of leather, tilled earth, game, truffle and black berry fruit. The juicy palate delivers mouthfuls of black cherry accented with clove and cinnamon alongside round, velvety tannins and the warmth of alcohol.
Aromas of tilled earth, ripe black fruit, menthol and a touch of leather lead the nose on this savory, medium-bodied red. The juicy palate offers ripe black cherry, raspberry, black pepper and a balsamic note alongside supple tannins.
From the well-known Zinfandel producer, this floral Chardonnay is high in balanced minerality and marked by darker, riper pear and apple fruit. The finish is swathed in vanilla bean and toast.
Black olive dominates on the nose in this blend of 75% Syrah, 12.5% Grenache and 12.5% Mourvèdre, all from Kick Ranch. Lively red fruit is amplified by soft, medium-bodied tannins and a well-composed finish, with just enough earth and spice to go around.
Rose petal, leather, wet soil, truffle and red berry aromas lead the nose and follow through to the ripe palate along with cherry-berry, white pepper and mint. It's delicious and already surprisingly accessible. Drink 2016–2023.
The bouquet of this wine shows condensed fruit notes of green apple and lemon pith, with a slight nuance of vanilla on the nose. Full bodied and creamy on the palate, it exhibits balanced acidity on the finish.
The wine has been heavily extracted, giving an initial bitter coffee and a dry tannic character. The fruit weight will compensate for this, bringing out acidity, black plums and rich berries. It has the right concentration to age, so drink from 2017.
The vineyard for this 100% Grenache is certified sustainable, organic and Biodynamic. Bright and light in strawberry and mint, the wine has a strong herbal component intertwined with tartness and tingling acidity.
Still young, but promising good things, this is a ripe and balanced wine. It's a blend of grapes from two Douro vineyards (Duas Quintas), giving black fruits, a strong sense of minerality and a dark texture. The end promises aging and drinkability from 2016.
Fruit is sourced from Bismark Vineyard in the Moon Mountain District. Compared with the winery's Winemaker's Cuvée, this combines Cabernet Sauvignon (83%) with a larger percentage of Malbec (17%). It spends the same amount of time—two years—in French oak, but slightly less of it is new. The flavors are more approachable, still dark, massive and spicy, the taste of oak slightly sweet.
Significantly full and expansive in vanilla, lemon curd and toasty oak, the Durell Vineyard shows its power here, generous in ripe flavors and rich earth. Aged just under a year in a majority of new French oak, it's built to age through 2025 or more.
Naturally low yields in a parcel within the Holder vineyard give concentration and great depth of flavor. The wine is still dominated by acidity, tense texture and a strongly steely character. Dry, nervy, needing to age, the wine has potential. Drink from 2017.
Earthy aromas of fresh tarragon and burnt cedar make an intriguing start to this wine, whose soft opening on the palate veers quickly into heavy flavors of chopped oregano. A plum element emerges faintly on the midpalate, but this is a solid wine for herb lovers.
Showing Nebbiolo's youthful energy and refinement, this full-bodied but easy-drinking wine features aromas of red rose, violet, red berry and a whiff of baking spice. The palate doles out succulent cherry-berry and cinnamon alongside silky, supple tannins. Drink through 2016.
Whiffs of orange blossom and lemon rind lend vibrancy to this rich, luxuriously textured Pinot Gris. Just off dry in style, it bursts with flavors of white peach showered in grapefruit acidity. Luscious and irresistibly clingy, it lingers long on the palate.
Deliciously aromatic, this is an assertive, fruit-forward wine, with textured minerality. It has yellow fruits that are cut with citrus as well as bright acidity. Drink now.
A freshly textured wine that has a bite of spice to contrast with its tangy lemon acidity. It's fresh, fruity and ready to drink now.
Expressive, not expensive, this has an appetizing mixture of spice, herb and smoke aromas, plenty of blackberry and raspberry flavors, and a soothing texture. It smells like black pepper, dried thyme and wood smoke, then turns more fruity in the mouth. It is medium bodied and slightly soft in balance.
Almost as light in color as water, this is a straight-ahead take on the grape, with tropical-leaning aromas of honeysuckle, ripe papaya and boisterous passionfruit. The palate is much grassier in style, showing cut lawn, kiwi, green pears and kaffir limes, with just a touch of lingering tropical sweetness.
Structured from the start, this wine provides succulent boysenberry and blackberry around a full-figured body that's otherwise steeped in vanilla and coffee, the toasted oak quite prevalent. It finishes slightly tart in dried herb and mushroom.
Grassy aromas blend with notes of melon on a round, slightly flat bouquet. This is chunky in feel, with briny citrus flavors and a lively core acidity that keeps it moving along. Tangerine and bell pepper flavors on the finish are fitting.
Tart cran-apple fruit—some of it from 35-year-old vines—is at the heart of this vineyard-designated cuvée. It has a woody/earthy undertone, tart acids and some stiffening tannins.
A blend of 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 35% Merlot and 30% Syrah, this has aromas of red currant, cedar and a whiff of white pepper. The straightforward, easy-drinking palate offers black cherry, clove, coffee and licorice alongside polished tannins. Drink now.
Darkly colored, this comes from the slopes above the small town of Buzet. It has structure and layers of black currant fruit and juicy acidity. With its firm tannins and ripe fruitiness, the wine will age. Drink from 2016.
This quite tart, young and spicy red pulls sharp and puckery cranberry fruit into focus. It's best enjoyed chilled, and would be a fine option for the base of a wine punch.
Fleshy, oxidized aromas hint at complexity but fall more toward wheat, wax and waywardness. Round in body, with vital acidity, this tastes of creamy oak, peach, dried apricot and lemon. This French-owned Chilean operation has been striving for years to make Chablis-style Chardonnay in the Andes; so far the results haven't been convincing.
A mineral layering of waxy pear gives this wine a light, crisp complexion, punctuated by subtle, oaky spice and plenty of vibrant lemon. Light on the palate, it'll serve well for larger gatherings.
Sourced from a range of vineyards across the Napa Valley, including Atlas Peak, Rutherford and Oakville, this intense wine is informed by thick-grained tannins and pronounced oak. Dark blackberry fruit and clove season it well, along with a finish steep in mocha. The blend includes a small amount of Merlot.
Black plum, violet and baking spice aromas emerge in the glass. The soft palate offers blueberry, blackberry, grilled herb and white pepper alongside sleek tannins. It's smooth and accessible so enjoy soon.
Fresh black fruits give this wine a bright start in life. It is rich with some tannins and dark spice. Dominant berry-fruit flavors are balanced with acidity and a dry, firm aftertaste. Drink from the end of 2015.
A 50-50 blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese, this has a subdued nose that doesn't give much away. The palate offers dried black cherries, blackberry extract, vanilla, licorice and new oak but the fruit is drying up quickly, leaving an abrupt, astringent finish.
This fresh blend of Négrette with both Cabernets is fruity and lightly crisp with refreshing final acidity. It's bright, while also having a ripe character that allows it to broaden out. Drink now.
Light colored and fruity, this has the typical Négrette polish, aromas and dry tannins accompanied by red berry fruits, with a richer, full aftertaste. The wine is made to drink young, so drink from 2016.
This wine has firm tannins certainly. However its main character is the delicious, juicy fruit that just bursts out of the glass. A fresh character suggests this wine will develop quickly, despite the tannic background. Drink from 2016.
Baked strawberry and a bittersweet note of cherry play off the palate around a medium-bodied frame of subtle tannin and oak. Dried cranberry comes in as a secondary detail, before the wine finishes in a blaze of leather and black tea.
This is the most substantial of the winery's 2012 Pinots, with black cherry and cola flavors dominant. There's a hint of gun metal and a lick of chocolate wrapping into a short, rather thin finish.
Very perfumed with wood and strong berry flavors, this stalky, structured wine has tannins that are already well integrated into the spicy, juicy red fruits. Bold flavors and tasty fruitiness are well balanced with the texture and dry core. Drink now.
With a light salmon color and aromas of citrus, apple, spiced pumpkin and minerals, this is tangy and citrusy on the palate, with flavors of orange and pink grapefruit. A fresh, solidly composed finish provides for a healthy conclusion.
Burgundy- and California-based Boisset's Rhône outpost has turned out an excellent value in this medium-bodied, firmly structured 2012. Black cherry and leather notes predominate, but pick up welcome hints of espresso, black olive and clove. Drink now–2017.
The Notios blend offers aromas and flavors of pert lemon, sea salt and spice, with an attractive acid balance. Focused and fresh but with some complexity, it's a god expression of Greek terroir and style.
White peach, tropical fruit and citrus typify this curvy white punctuated by fragrant Viognier. The rounded fruit is buoyed by Assyrtiko's brisk acidity.
Featuring another awesomely illustrated label, this wine starts off a bit funky on the nose with dewy bay leaf, oregano-crusted plum fruits and a bit of tobacco. It treads the lighter side of the grape, showing rustic elderberry and more damp herb flavors.
Aging on the lees for a few months has given this fresh white wine also richness. It has lemon juice and crisp apple flavors and a bright mineral acidity at the end. Drink now.
Ripe aromas of passionfruit, ruby red grapefruit and a juicy grass element show on the nose of this wine by Andres Ibarra and Caren Rideau. That ripeness tightens on the palate, with Granny Smith apple skins, yellow grapefruit juice and pressed green apples.
Cherry and watermelon aromas are fair and easy, while raspberry and plum-skin flavors finish pithy and citrusy.
High-pitched leather, chewing tobacco and desiccated black-fruit aromas lead on the nose. On entrance the wine feels loose and easy, but a medium amount of chewy tannins give footing to the second half of the palate.
Pressed flowers, undergrowth and blood orange lead to a lithe, medium-weight palate that comes with juicy acidity. The finish features hints of desiccated black fruit and clover honey.
Fado, wine and song, reads the label, and Fado is the essentially Portuguese style of music. The wine is more international in character, ripe, soft and smooth, with attractive acidity and juicy fruit. Drink through 2016.
Aromas of plum, espresso and coffee carry over to the one-dimensional palate alongside mature black cherry and drying tannins. It's a bit forward so drink this over the next few years.
Minerally red-berry aromas suggest vitamins and latex. Like most RDD jovens, this is raw and rubbery in feel, with high-intensity plum and berry flavors. A loud, acidic finish is fresh as can be but entirely simple in terms of complexity.
Two bottles were tasted; the first sour and disjointed, the second, considerably better, with tart lemon and green apple fruit and some pretty orange-peel highlights. It's finished with a screwcap so a bad cork is not an issue, but watch out for bottle variation.
A blend of 92% Chardonnay and 8% Pinot Noir, this is elegant in weight, offering a brioche note that adds character to the subdued pomaceous flavors.
While the wine is rich and tarry, it has an old-fashioned feel to it that comes from the juicy tannins and touch of rusticity. That's not unattractive, a wood-aged oxidized wine that has fruit and spice to add to its allure. Drink from 2015.
Sourced from Saralee's Vineyard-Matthew Station, it offers indelible savory and herbal notes, a chewy sense of wild strawberry and a drying finish for a curious, more thirst-quenching take on Tannat.
This Cabernet-dominated wine is elegant, structured with plenty of black currant and berry fruits that give a fresher element. With firm tannins that need to soften, it will age. Drink from 2016.
This cool Cabernet packs enough ripeness to sustain the more stalky character. It is full of red berry fruits, smoky acidity and a core of tannin. Drink now, best lightly chilled.
A 100% Viognier that's heady in ripe pit fruit, mostly sweet peach, and accented in nutty, floral aromas. It's full-bodied and  robust, with tannins that are soft and juicy.
A hint of ripe apricot gives extra dimension to the core of strawberry preserves and cedar. With its mild tannins and tender acids, this is an easy-to-drink wine that will pair well with grilled pizza.
The nose is overwhelmed by oak sensations of roasted coffee bean, espresso and toast. The marked wood influence carries over to the palate, which displays oak extract, coconut, coffee, chocolate, vanilla and plum accents alongside drying wood tannins and racy acidity. There's no fruit richness to stand up to the dominant oak.
Aromatic and intense, it deals stewed-peach and spring flower aromas. The medium-bodied palate packs plenty of flavor, and lively acids keep the wine feeling chiseled.
Ripe aromas of baked berry and raisin stop short of being too ripe. In the mouth, this basic Tempranillo is chunky but balanced by fresh acids. Plum, prune and spice flavors finish loamy and plump. Good wine for $8.
A mild note of blueberry scone hits the nose first, followed by touches of grilled herb and flower. The palate proves to be quite finessed, showcasing firm but buffed tannins and agile acids. Dark cherry and pastry spice notes mark the finish.
While the wine does have tannins, it's dominant characters are juicy red fruits, sweet tannins and a fresh, lightly mineral texture. It's a wine that's ready to drink, fruity while firm at the end.
Soft while still herbaceous, this is simple and fruity. Lemon partners melon, bringing ripe fruit and acidity attractively together. It's a bright, fresh wine to drink now.
With its green, herbal aromas, this wine could come from New Zealand. It's crisp with intense gooseberry and packed with citrus and green apple flavors. Drink now.
Fresh and lightly fruity, it's crisp and fragrant. With great acidity and a touch of herbaceousness, it's ready to drink.
White currant aromas give an exotic character that is confirmed by the spice and ripe apricot flavors. Acidity is bright and fresh while the aftertaste moves the wine more to a warmer character.
This 20-acre estate has produced a firm but already attractively ripe wine. It is still young and juicy, with black currant flavors dominating. The tannins are solid and need a while to soften. Drink from 2016.
Strongly herbaceous, it's also packed with gooseberry and grapefruit flavors. It's a sharp as a knife, very crisp and deliciously fresh, with a distinctly mineral aftertaste.
The young tannins are keeping the wine dry at the moment. But the flavors of black currant fruitiness and fresh acidity promise a bright and fruity future. Drink from 2016.
Fresh, light and fruity, it has ripe strawberry flavors, bright acidity and just a touch of caramel. It is full in the mouth, with a rounded feel and a soft texture at the end.
Young and spicy, this easy-drinking Pinot Gris still shows some bite and some bitterness, perhaps from skin contact. Give it a little more bottle age, and drink it chilled, to bring out the tart fruit and cut the phenolics.
Clean, fresh and inviting aromas are simple as rosé should be. Plum, raspberry and other red-fruit flavors are full and tight, with ripeness, acidity and just a hint of sweetness.
Red-fruit aromas of plum and berry are earthy and a bit stalky. The palate is tight, narrow and crisp more than flush. Spice, a touch of green herbs and then raspberry and plum flavors finish herbal, spicy and drying in feel.
Light in color, it brings notes of cranberry, currant and vanilla, with the barrel notes getting out front. The palate is broad in feel with tart cranberry flavors.
Generous on the palate, this wine from the famous site is ripe with wild strawberry and pomegranate fruit and accented with the distinct spiciness of cardamom. It displays its youth through assertive tannins and oak-derived scents, layering the thick finish with cinnamon bark.
Big flavors and structure come together perfectly in this full-bodied, dry wine that's meant for the dinner table. Its unique fruit character combines raspberry, blackberry and rhubarb, while firm tannins and vibrant acidity create an appetizing, mouth-cleansing texture.
Made in a convincing dry style, this medium-bodied wine starts off with hints of lime and kerosene, then adds peach kernel and citrus flavors on the smooth-textured palate. Finishes long.
A hint of lemon and yeast leads the nose of this wine. Its light-footed palate brings in more yeasty savoriness and texture before ample lemon zest flavors kick in with appetizing freshness. This has concentration and light-heartedness in equal and abundant measure.
Bosc pear, yellow apple and honey scents follow through to the radiant, medium-bodied palate, along with nectarine and Mediterranean herb notes. An energizing mineral tone adds depth.
Hearty floral-tinged black-currant aromas and warm cocoa and licorice notes show on the nose of this vineyard blend from the eastern Santa Ynez Valley. Bright acidity carries blackberry, pepper and roasting herb flavors on the palate.
Enticing fragrant wildflower, orchard fruit and aromatic herb aromas waft out of the glass. The round, enveloping palate doles out ripe pear, white cherry, white peach and salty mineral notes. Fresh acidity brightens the almond-laced finish.
This wine is 71% Malbec and 29% Cabernet Sauvignon. High-toned aromas of dried herb, cherry, tobacco, plum and barrel spice lead to pillowy soft, dazzlingly textured, mouthwatering fruit flavors. It's a big-time winner.
Delicate wet slate aromas meet wafts of rose blossom and baseball-card bubblegum on the nose of this rosé. The palate offers delicious and approachable strawberry flavors, held together with a steely edge.
Yeasty savor and saltiness mingle with yellow pear scents on the nose of this wine. The palate adds juicy, ripe yellow plum to the mix, expanding its flavor to full-on fruitiness, with a baseline of zest and saltiness. It's generously packed, with a clean, dry and lasting finish.
This is a rich wine that is full of spicy aromatic fruit. It is classy and elegant while having some weight. Red fruits and orange zest are given a perfumed herbal edge from the Mourvèdre in the blend. This is real food wine, ready to drink.
Classic varietal aromas of hay, tomato vine and tropical fruit take center stage in this expressive white, accented with a whiff of wet stone. The savory palate doles out juicy grapefruit, green melon, yellow peach and mineral flavors, with tangy acidity.
Bruce McGuire makes a strong case for the potential of Petit Verdot—a variety not often bottled on its own—in the Santa Ynez Valley. Baked blackberry, licorice and cocoa scents show on the playful nose, while black cherry, cocoa dust, cardamom and anise flavors light up the palate.
Green apple, Bartlett pear and citrus aromas follow through to the bright, creamy palate, along with a stony mineral note. An elegant, balanced wine with a fresh, lingering finish.
Tart but full cranberry aromas meld with sagebrush and cardamom on the nose of this bottling from an increasingly popular vineyard in this appellation. Baking spice and dried ginger mark the palate, which is acid-driven and lively, accenting its core of raspberry and pencil lead flavors.
This cofermented field blend is 60% Tannat and 40% Malbec. It's big, black, bold and captivating, with rich blackberry and boysenberry fruit. The tannins are grainy and flecked with graphite, and there's a suggestion of mocha throughout. This might fool some tasters if it were to be tossed into a blind tasting of high-octane Sonoma Zinfandels.
Like so many wines from this site, this is explosive and powerfully rich, yet a lurking acidity keeps it fresh and in check. Notes of cedar, dried herb and pencil shavings meet integrated oak and firm tannin, as brambly blackberry and blueberry flavors linger with clove-tinged spice on the finish.
Earthy aromas of forest floor, grilled mushroom, red fruit and leather slowly take shape in the glass. The chewy palate offers plum, licorice, Marasca cherry and clove flavors, framed by firm, fine-grained tannins that lend a polished texture and a tight finish. Drink through 2022.
This limited cuvée is made from the smallest block at the estate vineyard. It's entirely hand-farmed, with stem-driven savory notes around strawberry fruit. There's a sense of a slightly metallic minerality threading through, with drying tannins.
With a high proportion of the local Rolle grape in the blend, this is a lightly perfumed wine with a strong herbal element. It is a ripe finely structured wine, with great acidity and orange flavors. A style of wine that will be better for a few more months, it should be drunk from late 2017.
Named for the producer's farmhouse and its surrounding vineyard, this offers rich cherry cordial and weedy sage notes—a seamless mix of fruit and earth. Sage, cardamom and spicy white pepper flavors give it intrigue and complexity, wrapped in a thick, velvety texture.
Dark red cherry and baked red currant fruit meet a slightly meaty aroma on the tangy nose of this bottling from Chuck Carlson. It's lively on the palate, with punchy acidity and grippy texture, showing dried herb and tart red fruit flavors, making a strong case for growing Cabernet Franc in the region.
This young wine has great potential. With powerful tannins and a dense texture, it is rich in black fruits and acidity. Concentrated and with a firm structure, the wine will age well. Produced from a blend that puts Bordeaux grapes with a small proportion of the local Abouriou, it will be ready in 2020.
A solid, compelling bottling for an entry-level wine, this was aged in a combination of French oak, acacia wood and concrete, and shows clean Gala apple and brioche aromas. Grippy tension and sizzling acidity fire up the palate, bringing the wine's apple and peach flavors to the fore, sprinkled with savory sea salt and spice.
From an old vineyard on chalky soil, this wine has some concentration as well as a tight mineral texture. This is warm and ripe as well as fruity and crisp. It is a rich wine that has also retained crispness and great acidity. Drink from the end of 2017 or even early 2018.
There's a chalky power to the nose of this lightly hued wine, its baking soda aromas melding with rose petal, lime peel and watermelon scents. There's tremendous tension to the palate, where bubblegum and ambrosia melon flavors meet limestone-like minerality. Ripe enough to make it playful, it's bright enough to drink all day.
Light and almost effervescent in the glass, this popular Grenache-based pink from Doug Margerum offers yeasty, Champagne-like aromas, soft lemon-peel scents and wet slate minerality. The palate's tingling acidity delivers chalky lime and cotton candy flavors, bound together with compelling tension.
A wonderfully herbal lift of mint precedes ripe cherry fruit on the nose of this wine. The palate brims with lusciously ripe plum, while supple tannins provide a velvety but firm background against which the mellow fruit can play. It's fresh, juicy and full-bodied.
Vineyards close to the sea produce a beautiful crisp wine, with red fruits, a touch of saltiness and tangy acidity. Cool fermentation has kept so much delicious flavorsome fruit. Drink now.
In homage to its Bordeaux heritage from a previous owner, the wine has Cabernet Sauvignon in the otherwise typical Provence blend. That gives extra structure, as well as adding some red-currant flavors. This second rosé from the estate is ripe, richly endowed and ready to drink.
Bold boysenberry flavors and a broad, juicy texture make this full-bodied wine appealing and easy to enjoy. The texture is moderately tannic and everything tastes well proportioned.
Sémillon (60%) makes up the majority of this blend followed by Sauvignon Blanc (22%) and Muscadelle. The aromas of wet stone, lees, orange rind and fresh flowers are light and elusive. The palate brings a sense of elegance and balance.
Fresh and bright aromas of blackberry pastry and black-cherry fruit show on the nose of this wine from a longtime Paso producer. There are tart tannins on the palate, with red-cherry flavors enhanced by turned black earth, dried mint and dill.
Aromas of sugared plums, herbs and black currants lead to black- and blue-fruit flavors that are surprisingly soft. One misses the tannins Cabernet is known for but it makes up for it elsewhere.
Earthy and rustic, this intensely tannic wine has a dry character. The fruit is all there, hiding behind this rough exterior. Allow the wine time to soften out and drink from 2018.
Aromas of char and toast are quite up front, though they smooth out over time and give way to lemon meringue. The tropical fruit, butter and spice flavors are broad and well balanced, with a creamy feel and a lingering finish. The oak gets out front, but there are good things going on.
Merlot (55%) and Cabernet Franc (41%) make up the majority of this blend, which is rounded out by Petit Verdot. Aromas of dried red fruit, herbs and woodspice lead to elegant, zingy, dried cranberry and spice flavors that linger.
This tight, young wine has a steely, mineral texture as well as juicy fruits.Those fruits need to develop to give the full potential of this perfumed wine. Drink from 2017.
Made from vines between 20 and 40 years old, this wine is both fresh and ripe. Apple as well as citrus flavors give it a tangy streak. Made from organic and biodynamically grown grapes, it is all fruit, bright and with an attractive, perfumed aftertaste.
An unusually rich wine for Sancerre, this is packed with apple and pear fruits, with a soft touch of honey to fill out the palate. It is ripe, full of fruit and immediately drinkable, soft at the end while still fresh.
This perfumed wine has light, ripe fruits and soft tannins. Red cherry and raspberry flavors dominate the palate of a wine that is still young. Drink this attractive wine from 2017.
This 100% varietal wine from both Alexander Valley and Sonoma Valley sites opens in aromas of raspberry, blackberry and vanilla, tangy and stemmy in the background, with a plume of dusty earth.
This 900-foot-high vineyard produces wines that are flinty, mineral and tight. With its textured character and zesty lemon notes, this wine is fresh yet still developing. Plenty of fruitiness will explode in the next few months. Drink after 2016.
From nose to finish, there's a distinctly floral tone to this vibrant, delicately framed Riesling. Dry in style, it offsets fresh, cutting grapefruit and tangerine flavors against perfumed notes of potpourri and talcum powder. Drink now through 2019.
A solid wine for the price, this often sells for less than suggested retail in grocery stores. This bottling shows bacon fat, tart blackberry, black loam and baked goods on a just-enough-of-everything nose. The soft palate is smooth, with mouth-coating tannins and flavors of cigar leaf, black currant and black pepper.
Aromas of spice, lees and ripe pear are followed by creamy feeling tropical fruit flavors, with pineapple in the lead. It doesn't quite all come together but provides plenty of intrigue.
Nick Elliott's blend of 53% Grenache, 28% Syrah and 19% Mourvèdre offers crushed black raspberries, boysenberries, rose petals and touches of oak and caramel on the nose. The palate shows shows tar, black pepper and slightly sour blueberry, proving straightforward.
The aromas offer notes of dill, dark fruit, pepper, vanilla and woodspice. The flavors are tart and full bodied, bringing some heat on the finish.
Aromas of white peach and honeysuckle yield to flavors of grapefruit, peach, jasmine and orange blossom. This wine is smooth in the mouth and the zesty finish is characterized by lingering floral flavors.
This wine offers aromas of rose petal and geranium with a hint of lemon. It is full on the palate, with flavors of toasted pineapple, white peach, lilac and Turkish delight. The smooth finish is marked by savory touches, with a nice balance of fruit and floral flavors.
Fragrant blue flower, red berry, tilled soil and a whiff of new leather take center stage on this bright red. The ripe, straightforward palate delivers crushed Marasca cherry and baking spice alongside round, mature tannins. It's straightforward and already rather evolved so enjoy sooner rather than later.
Lemon grass, underripe pineapple and freshly mowed lawn lead to tastes of grapefruit pith and white flowers. It has a strong backbone of minerality and a very slight sweetness on the finish.
This garnet-colored wine made from 100% Kallmet has aromas of black cherry, black pepper and red plums. It has flavors of red raspberry, cinnamon and red plums. The tannins are soft and round and the finish is persistent.
Bold, penetrating tannins and bright cranberry acidity lend a tight frame to this classically styled Blaufränkisch, a.k.a. Lemberger. Crisp-tart blackberry and blueberry flavors are accented by bramble and herb notes that linger long on the finish. Its quite closed now, but should show well after 2018.
This cherry-colored wine offers the nose baking spice, tart cherry and black peppercorns. It has a medium body with nice minerality and flavors of blueberry jam, tart cherries and dried violets.
Salted stonefruit, Key-lime pie and eggy brioche notes show on the nose of this entry-level Viognier from the longtime producer. The palate offers lime blossoms, white peach, slight quinine and a touch of caramel in the midpalate, presented with a grippy texture.
Mature plum, underbrush, truffle, violet and mocha aromas come together on this savory wine. The firm palate offers juicy wild cherry, espresso, licorice and white pepper alongside assertive tannins that leave a rather astringent finish.
Bright, jammy aromas and ripe, lively, chocolate and cherry flavors give a lot of personality to this velvet-textured wine. Medium to full bodied, it has a good blanket of fine tannins to coat the tongue and give the wine grip.
Apple and stone-fruit aromas are a little oily and starting to fade. Driving acidity keeps this in forward mode, but there's an empty gap in the middle of the palate. Waxy apple, apricot and orange flavors finish just juicy enough. Drink immediately.
An appealing personality makes this a good go-to wine. Aromas combine a light spicy quality with tasty black cherry and berry notes. Flavors add rich fruit and a little spiciness, and the mouthfeel is supple.
Toast, espresso and mocha aromas lead the nose while the bracing palate offers raw red berry, anise, coffee and a hint of chocolate. Grainy tannins provide firm support but leave an astringent finish. Wait another few years for the tannins to soften a bit then drink up.
Plum, cassis, herb and spice aromas make for a full, pleasant bouquet. This shows a thick tannic plodding palate along with quick-hitting berry and cassis flavors. Lasting acidity on the finish creates welcome freshness and length.
Crisp stony lightly herbal plum aromas are moderately smoky. This feels flush and pleasant, with a full body and flavors of plum, cassis and tomato sauce. A controlled composed finish benefits from lasting acidity.
Macho grapy aromas are offset by spunky raspberry scents. Fruity and a bit narrow and grabby across the palate, this delivers Mendoza's patented black-fruit flavors wrapped in chocolaty oak. Spice and oak remain present on a full finish.
This is a great find in this category. Gentle, floral notes of honey and apple mark nose and palate. The light body gives a charming, almost delicate character to this well-balanced and refreshing sweet wine.
Leesy fleshy papaya aromas come with a touch of sulfur and harshness. This feels solid, albeit modest in bubbles. Flavors of apple and green melon are lasting and steady on the finish.
Rich, fruity and textured, this expresses freshness with its acidity and red-currant flavors. These cut through the tangy texture, giving a tight aftertaste. The wine can be drunk immediately for its crispness or held until late 2016 to let it soften.
The aromas of wild strawberries, spice and sarsaparilla are immediate in their appeal. The palate is light bodied and elegant, with mouthwatering acids and flavors that linger. This wine is delicate but brings a lot of enjoyment.
This wine offers clean, slightly dilute raspberry fruit, along with lovely aromatics and a persistent, engaging finish. In spite of the lightness, it holds your interest.
Oak, almond and nutmeg represent the rounder, lusher aspects of the 10% Sémillon in this Sauvignon Blanc-based wine, complemented by creamy pear, peach and melon. The two work together well, providing soft layers of crisp goodness in a glass.
Aromas of exotic spice, plum, violet and a whiff of chopped herb lead the nose. The firm palate delivers tart red cherry, espresso, anise, vanilla and coconut alongside brisk acidity and grainy tannins.
Notes of cinnamon and peppercorns adds complexity to the cranberry-pomegranate fruit and slate minerality on the nose of this single-vineyard expression. It's more reserved in its palate, which offers cranberry tang with an herbal sagebrush quality, proving a reliable, straightforward take on the grape.
Aromas of plum, blackberry, violet and exotic spice jump out of the glass. The bright, polished palate offers black cherry, raspberry jam and black pepper alongside fresh acidity. It's made for immediate drinking pleasure so enjoy soon.
Soft and buttery, this drink-now style is as smooth as a polished stone. The fruit is fairly generic and light, but the penetrating punch of popcorn and nut oil carries it along nicely.
This wine is tightly wound yet intense, ripe and tart in cherry, rose and lush earth. Baking spices make their way through the density of fruit, while the texture struggles to find balance. Let this powerfully built wine open in the glass.
Sun-kissed grapefruit and tangerine flavors are accented by darker notes of bramble and lime zest in this crisp, cutting Riesling. Off-dry, juicy yet refreshing and light-footed, it's an everyday wine with a touch of flair and elegance.
Fresh yellow cherries and greengage plums perfume this spry but lushly textured Riesling. It is dry in style, but has a comforting clinginess that enriches the finish. Drink now.
Waxy aromas of lanolin, dried apple and cheese set up a plump well-balanced palate, with plenty of body weight and adequate acidity. Peach, apple and melon flavors are moderately stony and minerally, while this varietal Garnacha Blanca finishes with good length.
This opens with somewhat rustic aromas of overripe fruit, truffle, game and a whiff barnyard. The round, accessible palate is already evolved, showing dried black cherry, mocha, anisette and a confectionary note alongside smooth tannins. Drink sooner rather than later.
Ripe and full, this comes from a producer based just south of the Côtes de Blancs. Yellow fruits are cut with citrus to give a rich, while refreshing wine. Smooth with an orange-zest texture, it is ready to drink.
The nose on this widely available bottling is vivacious and juicy, with strawberry, strawberry blossoms and raspberries laid across a pencil-lead frame. It tightens on the palate, with lots of graphite and pencil shavings, showing just a bit of pomegranate fruit.
Aromas of orange peel and orange essence are oily and bring softer notes of melon, apple and tropical fruits. This is bright but basic on the tongue, with cutting acidity. Tropical flavors of green melon and mango are ratcheted by citric acidity, while the finish is citrusy and pithy.
Well made, well rounded and well balanced, this medium-bodied wine has tasty fruit aromas and flavors. Spicy accents accompany a firm, layered texture and lasting finish.
Apple and peach aromas are clean and pure. This feels round yet compact, with orange, nectarine and pithy flavors. Green-apple tartness and malic acidity push a pure finish that doesn't balk.
Pine forest and tart, lean drops of cranberry, rhubarb and pomegranate combine for a complex, savory and compelling vineyard-designate. A strong presence of tannin marks the finish.
Aromas of red berry, grilled herb, oak-driven spice and a balsamic note lead the nose on this. The palate is still tight and closed but eventually gives up raw cherry, strawberry, sage and espresso alongside assertive, raspy tannins. Let the tannins soften a bit and then drink up before the fruit fades.
The fruit is the star here, ripe and round. Flavors are a nice mix of orange, apple and pear, with a light dusting of baking spices. This is drinking at its freshest peak.
Rustic leathery aromas are capped and low on vibrant fruit scents. In the mouth, expect tannic scratchiness. Flavors of plum, cassis and toasty oak come across as mildly baked, while a narrow finish with notes of earth, loam and chocolate is solid. Drink now.
Raisin and prune aromas indicate full ripeness, while jammy fig notes come in later and confirm this wine's warm-vintage DNA. A clampy palate with big tannins offers inky flavors of plum and prune, while an oaky concentrated finish feels jammy. Drink through 2018.
Tropical fruit aromas are suggestive of bath soap and body oil. This feels obtuse, with depth and an oily sensation to the palate. Chunky, ripe, oily flavors of melon and orange finish loud and ripe, with a deeper set of tropical fruit flavors than your average Argentine Torrontés.
Strong wood aromas mark this wine that's shot through with wood-aging flavors. Spice and smoky toast are evident, but the ripe blackberry flavors are big enough to balance this Merlot-dominated wine. Drink from 2017.
This is a smooth, velvet-textured wine. Its tannins are totally integrated into the ripe berry flavors. With its soft texture and open structure, it is almost ready to drink now. Wait until late 2015.
Lightly fruity in aroma and flavor, this has a very smooth, soft texture and just a hint of citric crispness for balance. It is medium bodied, clean and fresh.
The wine is all about fruit with only a passing reference to tannins. Red berry flavors come with just a dash of minerality and a firmer, wood-aged core. Drink from 2016.
Basketball star John Salley is the spokesman for this eco-minded project by Clos La Chance. The wine offers aromas of wet granite and fermenting apples. The flavors are similar, showing pear, slate and green-apple skins.
This lightly aromatic wine conveys ripe red apple, pear, and star fruit. The fruit flavors are centered in a ball in the middle, offering plenty of appeal if not much complexity.
The nose is reluctant at first, but patience reveals struck match, smoke, slight mint and tar elements. The palate is dominated by tart red fruit, like cranberry skins, bolstered with pinches of brown spice.
Dark in color, with rooty, leafy aromas of berry fruits that turn flatter with airing, this warm-style Pinot Noir feels wide and grabby, with some flab on its hips. Black plum and toasty flavors simmer on an dull, weighty finish.
Priced affordably for the appellation, this is a somewhat balanced Cab suggestive of bell pepper and jalapeño that dance around in smoke, currant and cedar. It finishes dry and tannic in vanilla oak.
This Super Tuscan-like blend of 81% Sangiovese and 19% Cabernet Sauvignon, whose name refers to the little stones on the estate, shows reductive aromas of black olive, rubber and dried pressed purple flowers. Flavors range from mushroom to slate, but the tannins need mellowing and it could use a little more air altogether.
Crafted from a field blend of varieties, including Carignan, Syrah and Durif, this holds a syrupy sense of meaty bacon and plum raisin at its center. Midweight and fairly straightforward in terms of flavor, it finishes fast and not overly complex.
Light in color, this suggests berry, herbs and wood. It's airy in feel with tart cranberry-juice flavors and a puckering finish.
This wine is bottled by the local Médoc cooperative, although it comes from a single estate. With firm tannins and a dense structure, it's austere. The stalky black fruits are only just ripe, giving a green pepper character.
This wine is lean and austere, with extracted tannins that have left no sense of fruit. It will remain hard, although it will be less dry from 2018.
Gravel and limestone soils provide two different origins for this wine. That said, burnt wood and smoky tannins are the only tastes at the moment. the wine does have enough weight and potential to soften out, so drink from 2017.
There's a salinity to this wine, which is grown to the west of Gilroy on the lower foothills of the Santa Cruz Mountains. Aromas are brackish and suggest sweet lemons, while the palate offers apples, squeezed citrus and a waxy character.
Despite coming from the even-keeled 2012 vintage, this nearly 100% varietal wine doesn't seem to have fully ripened, with notes of green pepper, herbs and bittersweet chocolate. It's medium bodied with sweet cherry and clove flavors.
This aromatic wine suggests candied red apple, jasmine and ale. It's medium sweet with a lightly spritzy feel and ale notes throughout.
Made with 60% Syrah and 40% Merlot, this wine brings notes of sugared blue fruit, herbs and tire rubber. The fruit flavors are soft in feel but the chalky, dry tannins detract.
Pithy citrus aromas are heavy and strangely herbal for a white wine. Pulpy and wide in feel, with little midpalate structure, this tastes of citrus rind, white grapefruit and nopal. A zesty note reprises on the finish.
This is attractively fruity, crisp and perfumed. With red currant fruits and refreshing acidity, it's fresh and light in character. Drink now.
Aromas are light with whiffs of apricot and pineapple. On the palate, the concentration of the stone and tropical fruit flavors is wanting but the wine still brings some appeal.
Mild, almost dilute aromas of strawberry and raspberry aren't fully convincing for Cabernet. In the mouth, however, this weighs in heavy and seeking balance. Flavors of berry and plum are baked, while candied sweetness and blueberry notes drive a jammy finish.
Some good things are going on with this wine, including abundant red fruit and a soft feel. However the wood overpowers them with strong aromas and flavors of vanilla, dill and coconut along with a bitter note that distracts.
Aromas recall jasmine, botrytis and tangerine. It drinks medium sweet with honeyed fruit flavors and a clipped finish.
Heavy wood aromas lead to a wine that's dominated by burnt wood with only subdued fruit. It's packed with tannins that are tough and extracted, giving a bitter coffee flavor. Although it will soften, the wine will likely keep its dry, tough character.
Considerable toasted wood flavors show from both the aroma and the initial taste. The fruit is lean, without the weight needed for balance. It's likely to remain an austere wine.
This wine's nose is all about earth and minerality, showing iron, rust, mushrooms and eucalyptus, but in a rather pungent way. The flavors are sanguine, nearly metallic, with Indian spices and cranberry fruit combining for a sip that is lean in body but grippy with tannins.
The tartness in this wine veers slightly sour, with the acidity dialed perhaps a notch too high. Herb and salt intermix to give a more savory character, with a freshness to the finish.
Candied cherry and red-plum aromas precede an edgy palate and herbal flavors of plum and berry that are slightly hot and spicy. Raspberry and red-currant flavors on the finish are dilute.
This big and tannic wine has an exotic spice and herb aroma, like rosemary and clove, then lots of dark fruit flavors plus smoke, black pepper and espresso. The texture is dry and very firm, and the thick layer of tannins will need more time to soften. Best after 2020.
Aromas of mature blackberry, white pepper and exotic spice lead the nose. A 50-50 blend of Aglianico and Piedirosso, the firm palate offers raspberry jam, toasted oak, espresso and oak-driven spice.
Blackberry pie stars in this soft, grippy estate wine, held in both French and American oak, only a third of it new. Integrated tannins provide an approachability, along with a strong suggestion of leather.
Brambly berry and heaps of brown sugar combine for a thick, soft and richly layered wine that pushes the limits in terms of ripeness. It has small amounts of Mourvèdre, Charbono and Carignane blended throughout and was aged in one-third new French oak.
This is a lusty, bombastic and burly wine, completely in keeping with the producer's style, mixing smoky bacon, tar, cigar and charcuterie with smooth, round layers of concentration and ripeness. With a handful of Petite Sirah, it aged 14 months in American oak, a charred note that lingers on the finish.
Tropical fruit, spice and honey on the nose give this Malagousia and Assyrtiko blend an opulent, exotic start. Balance is struck with its citrus and melon fruit backed by a clean acidity. Clean but full of character.
A full-bodied, robust expression of the variety from an appellation that can sometimes be relatively cool, this shows deft characteristics of savory pepper, cedar and a tightness of lively acidity. While fresh it's also heavy, with a finish of black tea.
A tad light on the nose but offering white pepper, black pepper, fresh-pressed boysenberry and lavender. The mouthfeel is soft with olallieberry, plum skins, fresh purple flowers and touches of cola and coffee bean. The winery just opened a new tasting room west of Paso.
This atypical blend of 56% Syrah and 44% Merlot shows red roses and red currants on the rather light nose. The palate is also delicately layered with light red plums, tangy strawberries and a tight bay leaf herbal component.
A blend of 80% Carricante and 20% Catarratto, this offers heady aromas of Spanish Broom, linden blossom and white stone fruit. The bright palate offers yellow apple, unripe peach, lemon zest and mineral alongside refreshing acidity.
Leathery, clipped, briary black-fruit aromas are heavily oaked and smoky. This feels like a bag of nails, with a sucking texture. Barrel-heavy flavors of charred blackberry and cassis are resiny and dry, with clove notes and pounding tannins. Hold as long as you wish; this can only benefit from more time in the bottle.
After 12 months in 22% new French oak, this well-made wine offers pleasing scents of toast and butter. Similar flavors are married to clean apple and pear. Drink now through 2020.
Beeswax and acacia aromas lift out of the glass while the bright palate offers ripe pear, nectarine and grilled herb. Mineral and almond notes add interest.
Alluring aromas of grilled herb, spring blossom, citrus and crushed stone lift out of the glass. The palate is understated but refined, offering lime, tangerine zest, sage and a hint of saline alongside bright acidity.
This is a ripe, red-fruit dominated wine with rich strawberry and cream flavors that are immediately attractive, With its balanced acidity, the wine is ready to drink now.
This fruity wine has a refreshing citrus flavor. Lightly textured, it is lively and crisp. A mineral edge gives it tight structure, putting the wine into the food category.
This Slovenian red blend of 40% Cabernet Franc, 30% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Merlot has aromas of raspberry, cherry and a touch of green bramble. In the mouth, there is balanced acidity with flavors of cherry pie and dried plums. The finish is persistent with grippy tannins.
Potent aromas of wood smoke and grilled baguette join fruit flavors so ripe they are almost sweet, while seductive baking spices join in. It's a great wine for oak lovers and has the potent berry-cherry flavors to back up all that spiciness.
Aromas of small red berry, Spanish broom and flint come together on this vibrant rosato. Made entirely with Nerello Mascalese the direct, linear palate offers red cherry, strawberry and a mineral note alongside vibrant acidity. A hint of nut marks the finish.
Buttery boysenberry pie, crushed vanilla and fresh blueberries converge on the nose of this bargain bottling. Soft tannins frame flavors of black currant and dark roast coffee with touches of tobacco and a caramelized finish.
Aged in 100% new American oak, this is a potent wine with a mix of black tea, tobacco, dry earth and chalk. The fruit has a Dr. Pepper character, along with a dusting of cinnamon sugar.
Extremely ripe aromas of prune and pencil eraser are funky as per usual for this Elqui Syrah, but more sweet and generous than in past vintages. This feels quite heavy, almost oversaturated. Ultraripe blackberry and cassis flavors finish thick and gooey.
This is an appealing, dry, and well-balanced wine, with everything in good proportions. It has lots of fresh cherry aromas, good and deep fruit flavors and a light but tasty layer of toasted, smoky oak.
Very ripe and fruity in character, this wine smells like cherries, raisins and spiced plums, and has a grippy texture from good acidity and moderate tannins for a little bite of astringency.
Tangy and fragrant, this gives off aromas of red berry, white rose and a whiff of carob. The vibrant palate doles out juicy red cherry, red raspberry, mineral and a hint of baking spice alongside crisp acidity. It finishes crisp and clean.
With just a touch of yellow fruits, this is a ripe, concentrated wine. It has something of the Chablis minerality that is combined with intense fruits and acidity. The wine is young but very drinkable now, although likely to age at least until 2020.
Aromas of citrus, white flower and Mediterranean herb lift out of the glass. The round, juicy palate offers lime, apricot and pineapple alongside tangy acidity. A hint of white almond backs up the finish.
A new effort from DDO, this drops Domaine Drouhin from the name, and puts the vineyard name front and center. It's young and well-crafted, with strawberry and cherry fruit. The potential is evident for an impressive site once the vines get some age under them.
This is a rich, soft wine with jammy black fruits and ripe tannins. The acidity will hold the wine together and allow it to age. A mineral edge comes from the caillou (stones) in the soil—hence the wine's name. It will age, although quickly, so drink from 2018.
This medium-bodied wine emphasizes texture and structure instead of ripeness, and that's a good thing when serving with a rich roasted duck or quail. It has black-cherry and clove aromas, moderate fruit flavors and a tight mouthfeel due to full tannins and bracing acidity.
This bottling is the work of Jaffurs general manager David Yates, and the 2014 shines as a great example of blending wines of varying degrees of ripeness. The nose shows thyme, olive, cranberry and fennel, with a warmer hint of vanilla. The palate offers intriguing mulberry and red plum fruit, with exotic notes ranging from sichuan peppercorn to preserved lemon to kalamata olive.
This wine opens in a flurry of pungent apple blossom and orange zest aromas. On the palate, it shows a zesty fullness of apple, Meyer lemon and lemongrass flavor, complemented by competing notions of stony minerality and lush creaminess on the finish.
Regional bubbly pioneer Norm Yost manages to coax stunning aromas and unique flavors from his sparkling wines. In this example, the nose offers pear cider and corn laced with lime and apple aromas. That cider element comes into play on the palate as well, where mulling spices blend with dried ginger for a full and intriguing sip.
Distinctive scents of chocolate, nougat and lemon cake swirl up from the glass, framing a dive into a tangy wine loaded with red fruits. There's a suggestion of cola, great texture, excellent length, and above all an approachable, yet ageworthy, structure.
The unfolding layers of aroma on the nose of this bottling—sesame, white pepper, rose and wild berry, to name a few—keep one coming back for more. The palate is textured and finishes on an uplifting note, showing raspberry, dried flowers, fresh herbs and a hint of menthol toward the end.
This particular block was first planted in 2007, so these are young vines. Sometimes fruit from young vines will burst forth in spectacular fashion, and that's the case here. Supremely aromatic, this opens with a velvety mix of Asian spices, fruit leather, plum, cherry, cocoa powder and coffee grounds. All this and more can be tasted as well as sniffed, with excellent penetration through a lingering, cedary finish.
Cherry pie aromas kick off the nose of this bottling from a steep hilllside site behind Cambria. Clove, nutmeg and maple-cured bacon notes follow. Blackberry, vanilla and clove flavors glide on the palate, which offers ample tannins and acidity for cellaring, although the wine is delicious now.
There's been lots to like from this SoCal winery, and this bottling adds to the list. Rusty in color, it offers cranberry, strawberry, sagebrush and iron aromas. The palate pops with zesty pomegranate fruit, lifted by herbal garrigue notes and spice.
A 100% varietal, single-vineyard wine, aged nearly two years in French oak, 65% new, this is expansive in chalky red fruit and rustic saddle leather notes, the tannins billowy and round. A rich cocoa-like undertone plays nicely on the palate.
Marc Piro broke away from his day job at Au Bon Climat to produce this first vintage of his own delicious wine. Cranberry and pomegranate aromas meld with sagebrush, thyme and peppercorn on the nose. Bright energy pops on the palate, showing cherry, cranberry, sage and bay leaf flavors.
This single-clone cuvée really shines in 2014, with concentrated berry and cherry fruit, accented with toasty oak. The persistence and follow-through takes you down a lush flavor trail, with touches of caramel, sassafras and cola along the way.
Dried herb, dust and compost provide a dark underbelly in this vineyard-designated varietal wine. It's layered with caramel and toffee notes that are complemented by bright acidity and further freshened by sparks of pomegranate and cassis.
Full-bodied, rich and chewy, this is a big, bold wine. Ample oak frames black cherry and cassis fruit, adding hints of vanilla and dark chocolate to the fudge-like impression. Warmth suffuses the palate, but doesn't quite progress to full-blown high-alcohol heat. There's no doubting its impressive intensity and ripeness. Drink now–2025.
In the village of Soussans, and in the north of the Margaux appellation, this estate has a fine reputation for its wines. This vintage, with its great balance between fruit and tannins, shows why. It is a ripe wine full of black fruit and with the bright acidity of the vintage. Drink the wine from 2021.
Tightly structured, this is a dense wine. Packed with dry tannins, it is starting life as a firm wine. It is equally rich in fruit, a panoply of black plums and red currants. Drink this concentrated wine from 2026.
Owned by the Cuvelier family of Léoville Poyferré in Saint-Julien and with Michel Rolland as consultant, this is a fine estate with an equally fine chateau. It is dense and richly endowed with black fruits and spice. At the same time, it has style and a way with its fruit and acidity that give it a lift. Drink this very ageworthy wine from 2023.
With swathes of delicious herbal and green Sauvignon Blanc fruit just delicately underpinned by the wood aging, this is a wine that is rich while remaining so crisp. It is the tangy grapefruit and crisp texture that will allow this wine to age. Drink from 2020.
The wine is powerful with fine tannins and concentrated black fruits. The dense texture is lifted by the acidity and beautiful fruit of the vintage. The tannins are dusty, tight and surrounded by beautiful fruit and acidity. This, the second wine of Montrose, will develop surely over the next several years. Drink from 2024.
From the vineyard on the slope above Château Pavie, this is a beautiful, juicy and ripe wine. It has a mineral character with great swathes of black-currant fruit. This is a very fine wine, well delineated, ripe and with a delicious red-currant aftertaste. Drink from 2026.
This is a structured wine that also has great layers of rich black fruits. They give the wine weight and intensity that is lifted by acidity. It is a powerful complex wine, concentrated and ripe. Drink from 2025.
A lush and expressive bottling from a brand new vineyard, this shows candied black cherry, Vietnamese coffee, baking spice and licorice on the approachable nose. The ripeness extends to the palate, hemmed in by a tannic structure that ensures long aging. Asian pepper, rum barrel, caramel and cherry flavors complete the picture.
The nose needs air but as it wakes up, subtle notes of fragrant baked peach rise. On the palate a streak of lemon freshness provides both frame and direction, alongside a lovely apple-skin texture. Made from a blend of Riesling, Pinot Gris and Gewürztraminer this unites the virtues of each variety. This is full of life and impresses with its great precision and freshness. The finish is bone dry. Lovely now but will age. Drink now through 2025.
The intense aroma of very ripe peach rises from the glass. There are nuances of orange peel, too. These become aromatically amplified on the rich, dense and almost grippy palate. There is great concentration and residual sweetness, countered by bitter pith and texture. This is mature and totally fluid, ample and generous but its maturity adds subtle tone to the eloquent aromas. The finish is medium dry and very, very long.
This wine clearly needs to breathe. It is only after a few minutes of airtime that it shows its true colors: then very tart and aromatic apples appear, alongside a hint of smoke and a sheer touch of lemon freshness. The palate continues on that lemony streak and is absolutely dry. The body is lithe and slender and shows great freshness and intensity. Apple and stone flavors linger. Drink 2020–2030.
There is a touch of smoke and stone that lends a darker aspect to the ripe but crisp apple fruit. The palate has that same taut but very full-fruited feel—of very tightly held ample fruit reminiscent of red-cheeked, aromatic apples. This is both powerful and svelte. The palate is dry and finishes very clean, leaving you with haunting apple notes and fresh lemon.
The gentlest floral hint is suggested on the nose. The palate, on the other hand, broods and does not want to let go of its flavors. The dry palate is stony, textured and clean but it does not yet let any fruit speak. There is real concentration and length, but it clearly is too early to enjoy this. The finish gives a suggestion of apple, but we had better wait. Drink 2020–2030.
Well structured and appetizingly tannic, this full-bodied wine from a consistently excellent producer has opulent fruit flavors, mouth-filling texture and wonderful ripeness. Black cherry, blackberry and a touch of cranberry meld with mild oak spices—a combination that lingers nicely on the finish. Best after 2019.
Clarified butter is the first flavor to hit the palate of this wine, with a fresh, herbal essence that gives it a farmhouse feel. Cucumber and lemony acidity follow, as well as a pronounced oyster shell-like mineral note. This is a light, bright white ready for the table or as an apéritif.
Baked cherry, cardamom and cola meet a bright, citrusy undertone in this memorable wine. Lively, fresh and seamless in texture, it provides plenty of power, depth and complexity, without ever feeling heavy.
From one of the most ocean-adjacent vineyards in the state, this is a swarthy and powerful bottling, showing black plum, violet, olive and coffee touches on the concentrated nose. There is a bracing acidity and upright structure to the palate, while the flavors remain power-driven: stewed plum and hoisin sauce, with an espresso-like finish.
Fresh and lightly fruity, it's crisp and fragrant. With great acidity and a touch of herbaceousness, it's ready to drink.
White currant aromas give an exotic character that is confirmed by the spice and ripe apricot flavors. Acidity is bright and fresh while the aftertaste moves the wine more to a warmer character.
This 20-acre estate has produced a firm but already attractively ripe wine. It is still young and juicy, with black currant flavors dominating. The tannins are solid and need a while to soften. Drink from 2016.
Strongly herbaceous, it's also packed with gooseberry and grapefruit flavors. It's a sharp as a knife, very crisp and deliciously fresh, with a distinctly mineral aftertaste.
The young tannins are keeping the wine dry at the moment. But the flavors of black currant fruitiness and fresh acidity promise a bright and fruity future. Drink from 2016.
Fresh, light and fruity, it has ripe strawberry flavors, bright acidity and just a touch of caramel. It is full in the mouth, with a rounded feel and a soft texture at the end.
Young and spicy, this easy-drinking Pinot Gris still shows some bite and some bitterness, perhaps from skin contact. Give it a little more bottle age, and drink it chilled, to bring out the tart fruit and cut the phenolics.
Clean, fresh and inviting aromas are simple as rosé should be. Plum, raspberry and other red-fruit flavors are full and tight, with ripeness, acidity and just a hint of sweetness.
Red-fruit aromas of plum and berry are earthy and a bit stalky. The palate is tight, narrow and crisp more than flush. Spice, a touch of green herbs and then raspberry and plum flavors finish herbal, spicy and drying in feel.
Light in color, it brings notes of cranberry, currant and vanilla, with the barrel notes getting out front. The palate is broad in feel with tart cranberry flavors.
Tight, snappy aromas of citric red fruit and lemon peel set up a driving, tight palate with brambly berry, spice and herbal flavors. This shows chocolaty oak on the finish and juicy acidity that ensures freshness and long-lasting flavor.
Spice frames the bone-dry red fruit, which carries a sharp, astringent flavor profile into a rather short, tight finish. More cellar time might help to open this up further.
Volatile and hinting at a vinegary aftertaste, this offers straightforward pomegranate fruit with spice and pepper. The finish has a little burn, despite moderate alcohol.
A blend of Marsanne, Roussanne and Riesling, this delivers golden apple and toasted pastry-crust aromas. The middleweight palate comes with smooth lines and a lingering note of shortbread on the finish.
Ripe cherry and raspberry aromas are accented by red flower and light turmeric tones. Lissome and juicy, the palate is robed with fine powdery tannins that lend the finish some toehold.
In this pale rosé, freshly cut orange and papaya mousse aromas are cut with a bit of flintiness. The wine plays to the citrus side of the pink scale, with lemon rind and pink grapefruit flavors. It's a bit more watery than other rosés of the vintage.
A well-behaved 100% Chardonnay fermented in stainless steel, it had no malolactic conversion to add a buttery quality. Smooth-textured and medium-bodied, it's filled out by moderate pear and apple flavors accented with hints of white pepper, fig and vanilla.
This garnet colored wine has aromas of red plums and black pepper. There are jammy flavors of ripe cherry and red raspberry on the palate. There's a nice acidic bite and a pleasant touch of astringency on the finish.
Soft and smooth, it has warm fruit flavors and an open, generous character. It's full of apple juice, with just the lightest texture, crisp and bright at the end.
A scent of Mexican chocolate carries on to the medium-full palate, which bares polished tannins and bright acids that give lift to the finish.
This muted, tannic Cabernet spent 20 months in new French oak. The dark black cherry and berry fruit are overwhelmed somewhat by the toast and oak.
This is a very ripe and raisiny specimen from a rocky vintage. It's chunky and somewhat grating in the mouth, with balance issues. Prune, raisin and chocolate flavors finish without much structure or spine. Drink now.
From a small region just north of Pouilly Fumé, this is light and fruity. It's soft, just herbaceous and full of green apple and grapefruit flavors that give a fresh, lively character. It's completely ready to drink.
Stony aromas of minerally citrus and nectarine are clean and upright. This Garnacha rosé is simple but good in feel, with generic but clean flavors of stone fruits. Bitter, pithy flavors rise up to dominate the finish.
This opens with weedy aromas along with whiffs of coffee, espresso and toasted oak. The raw palate displays oak, licorice and dried sage but it lacks fruit richness. Astringent tannins generate an abrupt finish.
This wine is dominated by aromas of oak, toast and espresso that carry over to the palate along with black cherry. Extremely astringent wood tannins cut the finish short and leave the mouth feeling dried.
Fresh and fruity, this is classic cool climate rosé. It has as much fresh apple as red berry fruits in its light, tight texture. It's crisp and ready to drink.
Intense in aromas of fresh bread and a flowery, lilac-filled garden, it offers entanglements of red cherry and strawberry within a somewhat flat structure and tannic finish.
Medium in body, this has pretty lemon-blossom and white peach flavors that are boosted by fresh acids, and that linger on the open-textured finish.
Varietally correct aromas of white flowers, lychee and tropical fruits feed into a plump, creamy palate that's losing some of the steam it probably had when it was bottled. Melon, banana and lychee flavors finish on the heavy, creamy side. Drink immediately.
Aged in large oak barrels, this opens with an intense fragrance of rose and lychee that carry over to the round palate along with juicy grapefruit, white pepper and a mineral note. Pair this with spicy vegetable curry.
A blend of 60% Pinot Bianco, 30% Chardonnay and 10% Sauvignon, it conveys aromas of oak, lemon drop and candied fruits. The round palate offers intense but fleeting sensations of Golden Delicous apples and butterscotch. This is already accessible so drink soon.
It opens with aromas of violet, iris, ripe red berries and a whiff of vanilla. The soft palate offers fleshy black cherry, raspberry, black pepper and well-integrated oak alongside round tannins.
Big, fat and juicy, this wine has soft tannins and a full-bodied structure. It is full of the superripe Merlot that characterizes 2009, making the wine develop relatively quickly. It should be ready to drink by 2016.
This big and ripe wine hardly tastes like Bordeaux. That is until you get beneath the rich fruit and find the firmer tannins and the juicy black currant from Cabernet Sauvignon. The wine is certainly powerful with its dense texture and juicy, jammy feel. It could still age, but not for long. Drink from 2015.
This is a wine with austerity and a dry, firm structure. It does have fruit to give weight to its tannins and texture. With spice as well as flavors of wood aging, it's likely to age well. Drink from 2017.
Rich and structured, it is full of ripe berry fruits and dense tannins. It is solid and balanced, with concentration and a very ripe feel. It needs to age a few years, so drink from 2017.
This is a serious wine from a classic vintage. While it has lost its fruit, it has gained in depth with secondary aromas of toast and leather, still kept fresh by acidity and a touch of juiciness. Drink now.
Initially rough around the edges, this wine opens up to give warm red berry fruits, firm tannins and a solid structure. Underlying tannins give a dry core. A more juicy, fresh aftertaste means this wine needs some aging. Drink from 2017.
Intense aromas of peach, honeydew melon and almonds carry over to the round palate along with juicy green apples. It has nice weight and personality. The acidity generates a crisp finish.
A full-bodied white, it opens with aromas of lightly toasted oak, golden apple and ripe pear. The smooth palate offers yellow peach, apple and citrus with a hint of butterscotch alongside firm acidity.
Dão Sul's venture in the Alentejo has produced a wine that is soft, rich, all ripe berry fruits and gentle tannins. It's a warm, fruit-driven wine that has a rounded feel, with the acidity at the end giving some freshness. Drink now.
This concentrated wine opens with aromas of toasted oak, dried flowers and a note of burned rubber. The palate offers lemon zest, dried apricot, golden apple, vanilla, oak, honey and a hint of flint.
Done in the winery's soft and fruity style, this estate-grown Chardonnay spent 10 months in French oak, half new. Buttered pears and a whiff of barrel toast create a forward, approachable wine ready for drinking in 2014.
This wine discloses pretty aromas of white fragrant flowers, stone fruit and cantaloupe. The palate offers juicy pineapple, white peach and pear alongside a mineral note. Crisp acidity gives a refreshing close.
The mouthfeel is brittle and the acidity is brisk on this good regional expression of Pinot Noir. It shows the variety's silkiness, with sour cherry candy, cranberry and rhubarb tea flavors. Drink now–2016.
Made from the Kerner grape, which is a hybrid of Trollinger and Riesling, this silky wine begins with aromas of apricot and grapefruit, with undertones of nutmeg and clove. The crisp palate delvers white peach, pear and mineral alongside fresh acidity.
The wine is sheer fruit, apples and pears with a touch of apricot juice. It is ripe with a fine texture that brings out a steely edge and refreshing citrus flavors. The wine is ready to drink now until 2020
This mix of Pommard and Dijon clones saw 30% new French oak. It's generous with strawberry and raspberry fruit, leading into pretty flavors of cherry candy as well. Hints of spice and chocolate wrap it up.
A structured Sauvignon, it opens with aromas of toast, hay, earth and apricot. The rich palate delivers nectarine, pineapple, yellow peach and mineral notes with a hint of lemon drops alongside fresh acidity. The lingering finish closes on a dry note.
This full-bodied white opens with aromas of dried apricots, ripe pear and a whiff of alcohol. The round, forward palate offers concentrated yellow peach, citrus, lemon drop, ginger and a hint of bread crust.
Aromas suggest blue flower, black berries and tilled soil. The palate delivers wild cherry and raspberry accented with black pepper and hints of espresso and licorice alongside firm, drying tannins.
Both herbal and tropical in character, this wine presents a fascinating mix between cool and warm climate grapes from the same region. The mineral, tight texture holds these two disparate flavors together to give a balanced wine that is ready to drink.
A zesty wine, its fragrances suggest stone fruit, cut grass, pineapple and a mineral note. The bright, lively palate delivers yellow peach, papaya and citrus alongside a steely mineral note and crisp acidity.
A round, pleasant, 50-50 blend of Pinot Blanc and Mélon de Bourgogne (Muscadet), this is front-loaded with citrus, apple and pear fruit, nicely balanced with just enough acidity. Drink to while it's young and fresh.
This low-production Chardonnay shows the oaky, ripe notes. It has strong, forward tropical fruit, peach, lemon and lime flavors, with lots of buttered toast and vanilla bean.A firm minerality adds complexity. Drink up.
A savory and vibrant wine, it discloses aromas of white fragrant flowers, green apple, exotic fruit and pear that carry over to the palate. The juicy fruit flavors are accented with mineral and an almond note. Crisp acidity leaves a clean, fresh finish.
It shows a rounder structure than many Sauvignons from northeastern Italy. It opens with aromas of exotic fruit and freshly cut grass along with a note of crushed tomato vine. The palate offers ripe cantaloupe and flint and finishes on an almond note.
This wine has some tannins that give structure as well as young fruitiness. A definite dry edge comes from the fruit as well as wood aging. The wood also brings out some bitterness that needs to soften. Drink from 2016.
The acidity on this Pinot, along with a mushroom and red tomato earthiness, mark it as Carneros. It's a bit severe and austere, but you will find ripe raspberries, as well as the sweet toastiness of oak. With a dry finish, it's less flashy than some wines , but elegant. And it should develop bottle complexity through 2021.
This racy, fresh, cool-vintage blend is a touch rubbery on the nose, with berry and cassis undertones. A tight palate delivers a mix of dark plum, blackberry, baking spice and chocolate flavors in front of a peppery, dry, crisp finish. Drink through 2019.
This juicy Merlot/Cabernet Franc blend is balanced and fresh with great red fruits and soft tannins. Acidity gives a crisp flavor while the fragrant smokiness allows for future development. This comes from a nine-acre, high-density, hand-picked parcel on a limestone plateau among the Querre family vineyards. Drink from 2017.
Rich and spicy, this 90% Merlot and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon from 10 acres generous and ripe, with warm tannins and a fruity, red berry character. This blend has attractive acidity and spicy flavors from the combination of wood and stainless-steel aging. This is only the second vintage from enologist Jean-Rémi Larrat's own property. It is worth aging, so drink from 2017.
The ninth generation of the Dublois family goes for tight cropping on only 7.5 acres for Nectar (95% Merlot, 5% Cabernet Sauvignon). Layers of wood dominate this wine. However, it does promise fruit as well, shown by the weight and richness. So it's a wine for a pause, to allow the intense spice and new wood flavors to die down. Firm and dry now, it will be worth the wait. Drink from 2018.
An aromatic and fruit filled wine with notes of cherry cordial, raspberry, herb and barrel accents. It has sweet cherry flavors with firm tannins and well balanced acidity. Best after 2017.
The ripe fruit of this Shiraz and Touriga Nacional blend exude a character of richness and sophistication. Dusty tannins provide the framework for red fruit flavors and the generous structure. From José Luís Santos Lima Oliveira da Silva's range, the wine would be best after 2015.
Made from head-trained vines planted where California winemaking pioneer Agoston Haraszthy first grew the variety 150 years ago, this lush wine offers intense aromatics of tar, brick and smoke, with briary blackberry secondary on the nose. The finish is topped by flavors of cocoa and a sprinkling of black pepper.
Near equal parts Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Malbec with a healthy dash of Petit Verdot providing the frame, it displays notes of toast, coffee, chocolate, plum and woodspice with abundant blue fruit and coffee flavors.
This is a powerful wood-aged wine that is currently exhibiting dark chocolate and coffee flavors from new, smoky oak. It's the weight of the juicy fruit underneath that reveals the promise of aging. There is a mineral texture that shows the schist soil of the vineyard, all part of the dense mix. Drink from 2018.
A palate-pleasing mix of juicy boysenberry fruit, red licorice and bright spice, this quickly comes into focus. Concentrated and mouth-filling, it's a straightforward Syrah with an emphasis on fruit rather than funk.
Early aromas of menthol and oak settle on floral red berry scents and woodspice. The flavor profile of black cherry and berry is initially narrow, but with time rounds out to deliver a bright, pleasant overall character. The blend consists of 75% Carmenère, 25% Syrah and 5% Carignan.
Big flavors and full body make this deep-colored Grenache stand out. It combines aromas of ripe raspberry and boysenberry jam with hints of tobacco and cedar in the flavors. All are supported by a firm, tannic texture that is rounded out by a sensation of richness.
There is a lovely, poised balance between fresh, crisp fruitiness and peppered spice in this wine made from the increasingly rare Chasselas. It is light, flavored with apple and quince, very attractive and ready to drink now.
The wine is rich, full in the mouth and delicious. With its creamy texture, baked apple flavors and sprinkling of spice, it's a dense and ripe wine that could be drunk now, but which will be better in 2016.
Ripe berry, tilled earth, violet, grilled herb and coffee aromas lead the nose on this firmly structured wine. The palate delivers black cherry, crushed raspberry, chocolate, anisette and black pepper. It's supported by a backbone of bracing, astringent tannins.
Concentrated and generous in sweet red fruit, this is a gangbuster Oakville Merlot for the price. Balanced in fruit, herb and dry tannin, it's a lovable quaff from a well-known vineyard.
Restrained in new oak, this refined wine has a floral honeysuckle character that's followed by hearty, rich layers of apple and melon. Just a touch of licorice and orange zest appears on the finish.
Very well structured and richly textured, this is a serious red for a special occasion. It has a deep, smoky red color, slightly herbaceous and mineral aromas, generous cherry and raspberry flavors, full body and lots of fine tannins to give a soft bite on the palate. Made from 50% Tinta Roriz, 35% Carmenère, 15% Cabernet Franc.
This structured Barbaresco offers aromas of ripe black fruit, espresso and balsamic notes. The fleshy palate delivers crushed black cherry, licorice, coffee bean, black pepper and grilled herb alongside grippy tannins that need a few years to soften and unwind. Drink after 2017.
Fresh, crisp and uncomplicated, this offers aromas of honey and sliced peaches, with a lively texture and good balance. Medium-bodied, it makes a great wine for a picnic, before dinner or with seafood.
With its ripe and perfumed character, the wine is not quite dry. It's already maturing, with its fruity acidity muted by almonds, ripe pear skins and a tight, mineral texture. This intense wine will be ready by 2015.
This exotic and memorable white wine brings a floral, perfumed aroma, ripe fruit flavors and a nicely viscous texture. Rather light in body for its richness level, it delivers a lingering finish. It has the generous texture of a Chardonnay but with more intense fruit flavors.
This is an exceptionally young wine, still tight, textured and mineral. The potential shows in the white fruits, lemon crispness and rich background. It's full of both fruit and a firm, steely structure. Drink from 2017.
Subtle flavors, great balance and some mineral complexity add interest. It is tangy, refreshing and just a bit restrained until the finish, where it opens up and stays with you.
Named after Emile Boeckel's great-grandmother, Clos Eugénie is a parcel of vines on chalky soil, producing this rich, full-bodied wine. A good tranche of minerality gives the wine an edge while the lively fruits and acidity add brightness. Drink from 2016.
Rich and finely balanced, this wine combines spice notes with rich tannins and blackberry tones. While it is dense and complex, it is still young and needs time to age. Drink after 2015.
Aromas include red flower, iris, black fruit, baking spices and a whiff of eucalyptus. On the palate, cinnamon, sage, mint and a hint of vanilla add depth to the sour cherry and black raspberry flavors. It's still young with tight, drying tannins that need time to unwind. Drink 2016–2021.
This full-bodied wine reveals aromas of wild berry and allspice accented with a balsamic note. The palate is still rather closed but delivers black cherry, black pepper, sage and licorice alongside tightly woven tannins that need to unwind. Drink 2016–2023.
Mature black fruit, leather, wild berries and balsamic notes waft out of the glass. The solid palate delivers red cherry, toast and a whiff of orange peel alongside bracing tannins.
This is a firm wine with ripe Merlot fruits that are still sheathed in tannins. Densely textured, it is rich with berries and a stalky character that needs to soften. Wait for this solid, concentrated and ageworthy wine until 2017.
Bold boysenberry flavors and a broad, juicy texture make this full-bodied wine appealing and easy to enjoy. The texture is moderately tannic and everything tastes well proportioned.
Sémillon (60%) makes up the majority of this blend followed by Sauvignon Blanc (22%) and Muscadelle. The aromas of wet stone, lees, orange rind and fresh flowers are light and elusive. The palate brings a sense of elegance and balance.
Fresh and bright aromas of blackberry pastry and black-cherry fruit show on the nose of this wine from a longtime Paso producer. There are tart tannins on the palate, with red-cherry flavors enhanced by turned black earth, dried mint and dill.
Aromas of sugared plums, herbs and black currants lead to black- and blue-fruit flavors that are surprisingly soft. One misses the tannins Cabernet is known for but it makes up for it elsewhere.
This garnet-colored wine made from 100% Kallmet has aromas of black cherry, black pepper and red plums. It has flavors of red raspberry, cinnamon and red plums. The tannins are soft and round and the finish is persistent.
Bold, penetrating tannins and bright cranberry acidity lend a tight frame to this classically styled Blaufränkisch, a.k.a. Lemberger. Crisp-tart blackberry and blueberry flavors are accented by bramble and herb notes that linger long on the finish. Its quite closed now, but should show well after 2018.
This cherry-colored wine offers the nose baking spice, tart cherry and black peppercorns. It has a medium body with nice minerality and flavors of blueberry jam, tart cherries and dried violets.
Leathery olive aromas are not overly ripe or fruity. This is Graciano, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon from southerly Cádiz, and it's tight and narrow in mouthfeel, with roasted, stalky berry flavors. A full, grabby finish tastes more savory and spicy than fruity.
Fig and fennel star in this block-designated white that is crisp and fresh around a medium-strength body. Ready for the table, it finishes quick and clean.
This blend is 74% Merlot, 14% Cabernet Sauvignon, 7% Cabernet Franc and 4% Petit Verdot. Locked up vanilla, herb and dark fruit aromas lead to high-octane dark-fruit flavors, with the heat providing some distraction.
Salted peach, hints of dried banana and wisps of smoke show on the rather light and restrained nose of this bottling by Eli Parker and winemaker Blair Fox. The palate plays on acid-driven minerality and the grippy textural side of the grapes, with flavors of yellow apple, ripe nectarine, sea salt and mandarin orange.
Raspberry jam, prune, cake spice and grilled herb aromas unfold on this full-bodied wine. The palate is already rather evolved, offering dried black cherry, fig, anise and tobacco alongside mature tannins that lead to a tongue-drying finish. Drink sooner rather than later to capture the remaining fruit.
Blueberry, vanilla and caramel pop on the nose of this wine from the pioneering brand that is now owned by Bill Foley. Soft yet dense tannins and a plush mouthfeel ensue once sipped, with elderberry, bay leaf and fresh herbs showing on the tightly structured palate.
Sharp aromas of jasmine, green-apple rind and crisp pear flesh give a greener twist to the nose of this bottling by the sHearst family. The palate is framed by tangy, pinpoint acidity, showing lime rind, Anjou pear and squeezed orange flavors that leave the tongue tingling.
Truffle, underbrush, blackberry compote and an earthy whiff of game emerge on this hearty red. The warm, rather evolved palate doles out mature black cherry, licorice, clove and leather alongside solid tannins that grip the finish. It's one-dimensional and overtly ripe.
This is a soft wine, full of ripe apple and white currant fruit flavors. It's fresh , but also has a steely edge that gives a strong texture. Produced from chalk and clay soils, it is tight, rich and needs a few months more in bottle. Drink from 2017.
An perfumed wine, this is light and fruity. Bright raspberry flavors are lifted by refreshing acidity and a tang of zesty lemon. A touch of minerality gives texture. Drink now.
Ripe plum, game, truffle, leather and menthol are some of the aromas you'll find on this earthy wine. The tightly wound palate offers dried black cherry, chopped sage, mint and roasted coffee bean alongside raspy tannins that leave a mouth-drying finish.
Oak, coconut, toast, espresso, menthol and a whiff of cellar floor are some of the aromas you'll find on this robust red. The big, warm palate offers raisin, date, licorice and roasted coffee bean. Teeth-coating tannins leave an astringent finish while the heat of evident alcohol throws it off-balance. While it's tightly tannic, there's not much fruit richness, making this more suited for mid-term drinking.
Earthy aromas of game, porcini mushroom, scorched earth, saline and crushed herb meld together on this. The taut palate offers raw red berry, mineral and grilled sage alongside austere tannins. Drink 2018–2023.
Oaky aromas of milk chocolate and animal sit atop plum and cherry scents. This is a direct wine without a lot of nuance or layering: flavors of red plum and cherry are crisp and benefit from chocolaty oak, while the finish is solid in feel and tastes of oak and briny plum.
Made from 35% Obeidi, an indigenous grape usually reserved for Arak production, 35% Clairette, 15% Sauvignon Blanc and 15% Chardonnay, this wine is medium straw in the glass and has a nose of peach, Turkish delight and lilac. It is full in the mouth, offering flavors of ripe summer peach, rose petal and eucalyptus. The final moments are punctuated by a delightful blend of soft peach and strong mint flavors.
The texture and structure of this wine may be light but the fruitiness is so appealing. Soft and ripe with red-berry fruit flavors and refreshing acidity, it will develop quickly and be ready to drink from 2017.
This wine is two-thirds Syrah with the balance Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese. Reticent aromas of vanilla, woodspice, cigar box and plum lead to elegantly styled fruit and barrel flavors that trail toward the finish.
From vines that sit at 1,000 feet overlooking Monterey and the Carmel Valley, this wine only went through partial malolactic fermentation. It shows a tight nose of lemon-laced sour cream and grapefruit blossoms. Lime peels, more sour cream and stronger grapefruit-pith flavors mark the tight, tart palate that has firmness that will mellow with age.
Raspberry, herb and sugared-plum aromas are followed by easy-drinking red-fruit flavors that show a sense of balance that keeps the interest high.
Merlot and Cabernet Franc make up the majority of this blend. The aromas of dried herbs, pencil lead, cherry and spice are subdued while the palate brings a somewhat elegant style, with the tannins seeming a bit bunched up.
Essentially this is a rosé of Merlot, with just 5% Muscat blended in. Strawberry and watermelon fruit is light and lively, with an undercurrent of orange juice, perhaps from that Muscat. Merlot-based rosés tend to fall a bit on the tannic side, which here adds grip to the finish.
A nose of black cherry, cocoa and juniper berry paves the way for flavors of tart cherry, white chocolate, cocoa and orange zest. Bright fruit compensates for strong tannins, and although there is a cranberry burst towards, the finish tannins remain on the lips and tongue.
A unique offering of the variety, this wine displays aromas of fresh and dried tobacco, allspice, smoke and blue fruit. The plum flavors are sweet and supple, showing good concentration with a mesquite-filled finish.
Light and almost effervescent in the glass, this popular Grenache-based pink from Doug Margerum offers yeasty, Champagne-like aromas, soft lemon-peel scents and wet slate minerality. The palate's tingling acidity delivers chalky lime and cotton candy flavors, bound together with compelling tension.
A wonderfully herbal lift of mint precedes ripe cherry fruit on the nose of this wine. The palate brims with lusciously ripe plum, while supple tannins provide a velvety but firm background against which the mellow fruit can play. It's fresh, juicy and full-bodied.
With a high proportion of Mourvèdre in the blend, the wine is structured and finely perfumed. It has some firm tannins that are well integrated into the red-berries. While the wine is richly textured, it is also bursting with fruit at the end. Drink from 2018.
A concentrated, medium-bodied wine, this is a fine example of Marlborough and the variety. Hints of passion fruit lend regional typicity, while the core of the wine is built around white grapefruit flavors that finish long and mouthwatering.
Aromas of pencil shavings, Band-Aid, prune and black plum are good but shy. This Cabernet feels jammy but also a touch rough and tannic. Blackberry, toast, charred wood, salt and savory plum flavors finish solid but not complex or unique.
Wonderfully smooth and layered, this medium-bodied wine smells like fresh berries, tastes fruity and mildly spicy and feels silky in the mouth. The components are beautifully balanced, as fresh acidity lifts the fruitiness and mild tannins add a velvety touch.
An appellation wine that's affordable and instantly likable, this has strong forest and mushroom elements, seeming at once rustic and sophisticated. Cranberry and orange tones add brightness to the savory character, framed by fine tannins.
Briny cidery aromas are fortunately not that loud or intense. This is wide and generous on the palate, with dry briny stone-fruit and apple flavors. A sense of dryness and pickle brine is amplified on a purposeful finish.
Wood resin, green melon and a slight whiff of gasoline comprise the nose on this fresh refined manzanilla. Spiced apple, sea salt and sautéed white mushroom flavors are lasting on a healthy semicomplex finish.
Dark cherry and black licorice flavors combine in this wine from a 1,650-feet-elevation, estate-grown site. Moderate acidity buoys the fruit's ripeness and concentration, structured with firm, tight tannins.
A dry style with just enough acid to lend focus and length, this is a fine effort from Simon Waghorn, the owner-winemaker. Hints of baking spices and ginger lend nuance to the apple, pear, melon and citrus fruit.
For an entry level wine, this is impressive, offering hints of grapefruit pith, bergamot and smoke on the nose and following those up with some meaty-mushroomy notes on the palate. It's not typical, but boasts a silky texture and a unqieu combination of citrus and umami that lingers nicely on the finish.
Admirably concentrated and complex, this is a medium- to full-bodied wine. Passion fruit and snap pea notes combine with citrus zest on the nose, palate and long, mouthwatering finish.
This is zippy and refreshing, offering aromas of struck flint, pea shoots and grapefruit. For its abv, it's light on the palate, dancing with vibrant grass and citrus flavors and crisp acids.
Exotically fruity with an enticing floral character, this full-bodied, almost-sweet wine has lots to appreciate. It starts with a complex bouquet of black currant, cedar and ripe black cherry and continues on the palate with ripeness and concentration, without a lot of tannin.
Coral in color, this dry wine's light, fresh watermelon aromas lead to tasty raspberry and cherry flavors, backed by bright acidity. It's medium bodied and mouth-filling, maintaining a refreshing, appetizing quality through the finish.
The nose promises ripe, red cherry fruit and the palate delivers with a sprightly, bouncy, juicy red that's full of freshness. Wonderfully unpretentious fruit shines, with a little pepper spice to liven things up.
Tangy boysenberry and elderberry fruit shows on the nose of this sultry bottling, along with thyme, potpourri and licorice. The flavors are more cooked than fresh, recalling charred blackberry, dried blueberry, leather and licorice. It's a hearty wine that consumes the entire palate.
This pink stands out for its Ruby Red grapefruit aromas, backed by touches of orange peel and chalk. The mouthfeel is grippy and energetic, recalling again a grapefruit's juice and pith. A perfect breakfast wine.
This blend of 42% Grenache, 37% Mourvèdre, 16% Syrah and 5% Petite Sirah offers plum and mulberry aromas, with touches of thyme and sage. The palate delivers a similar range of dried fruit and wild herb flavors, showing dark strawberry and plenty of savory garrigue.
The vineyard is on the slopes of the Massif des Maures, on the way to Saint-Tropez. This special cuvée is ripe and full in the mouth. It has a bone-dry texture, balancing fruit and spice. This serious wine will be ready from late 2017.
This is a screaming deal for such an admirably good wine, blended with smaller amounts of Petite Sirah and Syrah. Compressed black fruit meets fresh leather on the perfumed nose. The palate follows with thick tannins and mouthcoating flavors of licorice and cinnamon.
The Fillippini family has been growing grapes in eastern Paso Robles since 1982, and this is among their better modern bottlings. The nose offers light sandalwood, ripe cranberry and river stone mineral scents. Its punchy berry fruit is underlaid with leather and cigar accents on the palate, where buoyant acidity and grippy tannic structure pervades.
Cabernet Sauvignon makes up half of this wine, with the balance Merlot (31%), Malbec (15%) and Cabernet Franc. Barrel notes of vanilla and baking spice are up front, followed by herb and dark fruit tones that are backed by lively acidity. It currently drinks very tight. Give it some time in the cellar or an extended decant. Best after 2020.
Distinct dried pear, apricot and sultana notes signal some evolution in this wine. The same, rich dried fruit notes are accented with zesty grapefruit freshness on the dry, concentrated palate. It finishes with pithy bitterness and a moreish streak of lemon. Rather advanced for the vintage but still evolving. Drink now–2022.
This wine leads with the fruity scent of fresh Conference and yellow pear. Its slightly spritzy palate comes with some yeasty, herbal savoriness and finishes fresh and dry.
This traditional method  sparkler opens with a genteel toastiness on the nose and palate. Fresh and bright fruit flavors suggest apples dusted with cinnamon. It's vintage dated and sourced from a single vineyard. Beware when opening–the cork virtually exploded from the bottle as soon as the capsule was loosened!
Reduced when first opened, this wine shows its lemony, fresh apple notes with a bit of air. It has the lovely midpalate texture and freshness inherent to good Chardonnay and fills the mouth with citrus and orchard fruit notes. Slender, structured and fresh-faced, it only needs some time to breathe.
An appetizing touch of red currant and cranberry plays on the nose of this vividly colored rosé. The palate is fruit-forward with subtle shades of berry and citrus. The finish is refreshing and berry-laden.
This is both fruity and deliciously crisp. It has the light touch of the vintage—red fruits attractively balancing with the acidity and the tangy lemon edge. The aftertaste is both fruity and herbal. Drink now.
Fruit flavors of pineapple and lemon are pushed forward, followed by a pleasing touch of light butter. The wine was barrel fermented in half new, half used oak. It's a fine spring/summer quaffer.
Not as full bodied as the tall bottle might indicate, this is instead a restrained, not-so-ripe wine that has an appetizing dryness, firm tannins and supportive acidity. It smells and tastes like dried cherries and cranberries, with a slightly astringent mouthfeel that will wash down rich foods well.
Dried cherries, black slate, brown spice and leather greet the nose on this affordable red from the esteemed regional producer that makes many Zinfandels each vintage. The palate shows black cherries and a plum skin acidity, with some rocky elements providing further intrigue.
Full flavored and full bodied, this big, expansive wine oozes ripe and dried fruit character from the aroma to the flavors and finish. It suggests blackberry and strawberry flavors, feels tannic on the palate rather than soft, and carries a bit of warmth.
Incense, exotic spice and red berries are some of the aromas you'll find on this Sangiovese. The palate offers menthol, coconut, oak extract, coffee and dried cherry alongside assertive, rough-edged tannins that dry out the finish.
Slightly sour and funky in earth, this is a restrained white aged in a majority of stainless steel, in addition to smaller percentages of oak and acacia. Crisp and minerally, marked by stone fruit as well as citrus, it finishes rich in caramel and vanilla.
Aromas of red cherry and a whiff of baking spice emerge from this bright blend of 70% Sangiovese, 30% Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. The aromas carry over to the fresh, easy-drinking palate along with a crushed raspberry note. Enjoy through 2016.
Despite this having a distinctly green nose, there's enough cherry and currant character along with overall brightness to make this an enjoyable Cab. Oaky flavors of vanilla and cream accent cherry and red plum. The finish is oaky yet bolstered by firm acids.
A 50-50 blend of Merlot and Syrah, this easygoing wine opens with aromas of red currant, graphite and cracked peppercorn. The lively palate offers blackberries, blueberries and clove alongside tangy acidity and dusty tannins.
A 50-50 blend of Sangiovese and Cabernet Sauvignon, this opens with aromas of ripe plum, dark-skinned berry, cedar and purple flowers. The palate delivers prunes, dried black cherries, licorice and black pepper alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish.
Fresh red cherries, strawberries and cranberry greet the nose on this widely available wine that also shows mocha and charred chaparral. The palate is lively and also boasts some decent tannins, offering flavors of plum and pomegranate juice, crushed marjoram and licorice.
Bright berry and dark spice aromas waft out of the glass. A blend of Sangiovese and Syrah, the easy-drinking palate delivers blackberries, crushed raspberries and ground pepper alongside polished tannins. Drink soon.
A strong vein of oak smoke and brown sugar runs from the aroma to the finish in this full-bodied, extroverted wine. The flavors resemble ripe blackberry, cocoa and sweet coffee, while the tannins give it a nip of astringency that will be great with big juicy servings of meat.
Auxerrois, a grape variety rarely seen in the United States, shows it's fresh white grapefruit and pear flavors well in this brisk, revitalizing wine. Dry in style, it's a zesty, straightforward wine intended for early consumption.
Sunny tangerine acidity and white peach flavors brighten this earthy, smoky Riesling. Off dry, brisk and finely textured, it's a refreshing, yet juicy sip. Drink now.
Tart and sweet, zesty and ripe, this off-dry Riesling bursts with bright apple and yellow peach flavors. A faint wisp of smoke and minerals lend some gravitas to this otherwise easy quaffer. Drink now.
Raspberry and red-plum aromas are floral and fresh, but simple. This has a hard, almost metallic mouthfeel and red-fruit flavors of strawberry and raspberry. A wiry, short finish is raw and snappy in feel, with a hint of oak.
Made entirely of the Alpine grape Prié Blanc, planted in the highest vineyards in Europe, this vibrant sparkler opens with aromas of green apple, white spring flowers and a hint of resin. The palate offers ripe Bartlett pear, creamy Granny Smith and Alpine herb alongside brisk acidity and persistent bubbles.
Blossomy and fresh, this off-dry, light-footed Riesling offers a palate full of sweet-tart white-grapefruit flavor. Zesty and spry, it's a refreshing apéritif best enjoyed young.
This ripe and rich wine has firm tannins and a smooth texture, making it a tasty match for rich protein dishes. It packs plump blackberry and juicy boysenberry flavors in a blend that tastes just slightly sweet, coating the palate and lingering on the finish.
Dusty mineral and white blossoms perfume this off-dry Scheurebe. It's ethereally light in body, but white grapefruit flavor penetrates the palate. Finishes crisp and dry.
Cherry and olive aromas are fair and sound, with a minty green touch. This offers a chunky, full palate and oaky, spicy flavors of black plum. The dark, toasty finish is solid, with kick and mild heat.
Earthy, dry and leathery on the nose, with slightly briny red-fruit aromas, this meets all the requirements of very good everyday Pinot Noir. Tea, brandied black cherry, spice and oak flavors darken up and turn chocolaty on the finish.
A heavy bottle holds a wine that's dark gold in color and exuberant in lemon curd and vanilla. Surprisingly light on the palate, given the color, it has a relatively low oak presence and layered, caramel-apple finish.
Red plum and currant aromas are a touch soupy but also suggestive of cherry Kool-Aid. This Garnacha-led blend is clacky and fairly acidic on the palate, but then it turns on itself to show raisin, loam and baked plum flavors. A lively finish gives it a boost out the door.
Made exclusively with Merlot, this opens with aromas of cedar, mint and dark berry. The straightforward palate offers dried black cherry, espresso and a hint of grilled bell pepper alongside somewhat raspy tannins that cut off the finish.
Very fresh and refreshing aromas of honeysuckle blossoms, seared apple, lemongrass and kiwi hit the nose on this wine by James Ontiveros. The palate shows a bit of ripe apple flesh, but trends more toward sour citrus rinds. It's a very clean, crisp wine.
Made solely with Sangiovese, this opens with aromas of roasted coffee beans, toasted oak and blackberry jam. The warm, jammy palate offers black cherry extract, licorice, clove and black pepper alongside massively stringent tannins that leave the palate feeling roughed up and dry.
Here's an easygoing blend of 70% Sangiovese and 30% Merlot that offers blue flowers and red berry aromas that carry over to the palate along with a hint of white pepper. Supple tannins support the bright, juicy flavors. Drink through 2016.
For its youth, this is a rich, smooth wine. The tannins, even from the Malbec in the blend, are full, rounded and already integrated. Acidity and an attractive smokiness give this wine its already-drinkable character. Drink from the end of 2015.
Rustic leathery aromas are capped and low on vibrant fruit scents. In the mouth, expect tannic scratchiness. Flavors of plum, cassis and toasty oak come across as mildly baked, while a narrow finish with notes of earth, loam and chocolate is solid. Drink now.
Raisin and prune aromas indicate full ripeness, while jammy fig notes come in later and confirm this wine's warm-vintage DNA. A clampy palate with big tannins offers inky flavors of plum and prune, while an oaky concentrated finish feels jammy. Drink through 2018.
Tropical fruit aromas are suggestive of bath soap and body oil. This feels obtuse, with depth and an oily sensation to the palate. Chunky, ripe, oily flavors of melon and orange finish loud and ripe, with a deeper set of tropical fruit flavors than your average Argentine Torrontés.
This is a pretty, light-copper hue, from a small percentage of the grapes being kept on the skins. Fruity flavors of pear and apple dominate, while the acids conjure up suggestions of orange juice.
Sourced from 35-year-old Wente clone vines, this offers bright apple with hints of peach. It's medium bodied and streaked with flavors of caramel and butterfinger candy.
This is a blend from Aÿ on the Montagne de Reims and from the Côte des Blancs. It is intensely perfumed, with weight from Pinot Noir and crispness from Chardonnay. If it seems not quite integrated at this stage, it will hopefully come together over the next few years to reveal a ripe and rich wine. Drink from 2017.
As its name implies, the wine comes from chalky soil, giving this wine its mineral edge. The fruit is ripe and tropical in its generosity, full of yellow fruits, pineapple and mango. There is a fine floral aroma which, along with acidity, give the wine a bright aftertaste.
Offering fine flavor for the price, this release emphasizes spice over fruit, with a sharp, slightly herbal edge. Crisp apple and pear show ginger highlights. Drink this lightly chilled with some spicy Thai food.
A streak of wax and honeycomb glazes through this otherwise brisk citrusy Riesling. Off-dry and concentrated in apples and tangerines, it finishes moderately long with lingering touches of tea leaf and honey. Drink now.
Plum and berry aromas are infiltrated by touches of leafy green and leather on the nose of this texturally sound, herbal-tasting Malbec. Flavors of plum and spice are a touch weedy, while baking spice and clove notes take over on the finish.
This is a rich wine dominated by ripe Alicante Bouschet that gives some firm tannins as well as juicy red berry fruits. It is ripe, well balanced and likely to age well over the next few years. Drink from 2017.
A ripe and warm wine full of yellow fruits and a full-bodied texture. It's rich and creamy with a fine balance between exotic fruit and the crispest citrus. The wine is ready to drink.
Unoaked, and instead fermented for 10 months in both stainless steel and concrete egg, this white remains light-bodied and crisp, touched by aromas of honeysuckle and refreshing flavors of pear and quince.
Honeyed red-apple slices, ripe papaya, honeysuckle and honeydew aromas are nicely cut by wet-cement minerality on this nose of this 71% Viognier and 29% Roussanne blend. It's tight and reserved on the palate, tart with lime and apple-juice flavors.
Leesy white fruit aromas open this blend of 80% Albariño with Loureiro and Treixadura. In the mouth, it's all citric acidity and stoniness. The body doesn't register. Flavors of blood orange and lemon are also minerally, while the finish is persistently linear.
Blending Cabernet Sauvignon with Merlot and Syrah, RTW is somewhat classical in its black olive and dried herb, yet also rich and concentrated, with tannic bite and a taste of clove. It finishes like vanilla cola.
This cuvée reflects the lean vintage with modest alcohol and slightly dilute fruit flavors. Pretty aromatics suggest rosewater and sandalwood, and the wine fades gracefully with plum and cherry fruit.
Leathery stalky berry aromas come across as being baked and rough. This is full and grabby on the palate with cooked blackberry and prune flavors that end dark, and spicy with notes of licorice and herbs.
Aromas of baked plum, spirits, baking spice and a whiff of blue flower lead the nose on this robust wine. The hearty palate offers dried black cherry, raw cranberry, leather and licorice alongside firm tannins and racy acidity. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on the finish.
Despite opening with a yellow color and waxy oily peach aromas, this benefits from zesty lemon-like acidity. Flavors of quince and apple are oaky, while effusive acidity keeps this Verdejo fresh on the finish, which is otherwise big and full. Drink now.
Aromas of black cherries marinated in spirits, menthol, leather and chopped herbs lead the nose on this brawny wine. The hefty palate shows the heat of the vintage, offering dried berries, licorice, tobacco and mocha alongside the warmth of evident alcohol and jarring tannins. Give it a few years to let the tannins soften up a bit but then drink before the fruit dries up.
The chalk subsoil of the Bélingard estate gives this wine its textured character. The wood aging smoothes out the crisp acidity of Sauvignon Blanc and Sémillon and adds a light layer of toast. It is still a young wine and will be better from late 2016 or even 2017.
Fresh and savory, this opens with aromas of dark berry, ground cooking spice and whiff of chopped herb. The vibrant palate doles out juicy black cherry, clove, star anise and blood orange accompanied by racy acidity.
Spiced blueberry, ripe plum and tilled earth aromas lead the nose on this hearty wine. Made with no added sulfites, the big, chewy palate delivers juicy black cherry, ripe blackberry and licorice alongside the warmth of evident alcohol.
This opens with rather funky aromas of scorched earth, overripe black-skinned fruit and a whiff of barnyard. The extracted palate offers mature black cherry, toast, espresso and a gamey note alongside tightly packed tannins. A note of roasted coffee bean signals the close.
Pretty scents and flavors of bright cherry fruit come up quickly, with enough concentration to batten down a medium-long finish. A light hint of sweat or animal comes up also.
This medium-bodied red opens with aromas of toasted oak, mature berry and freshly brewed coffee. The tight palate offers dried black cherry, white pepper, espresso, and a hint of licorice framed in fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
From vines planted to the west of Chablis, this is a soft, ripe and fruity wine. It has some tension from the minerality while keeping the white fruit flavors to the fore. Drink now or, better, from late 2016.
Made from old vines, this ripe and concentrated wine is smooth and creamy. Good acidity balances the rich fruits, giving flavors of apples, pears and apricots cut by a line of citrus. The wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2017.
Luscious peach and blossom notes perfume this plucky off-dry Riesling. Laced with honey and tart tangerine acidity, it's easy, fresh and approachable. Drink now.
This is a tough wine, packed more with tannins than fruit. A bitter chocolate character comes from over-extraction of the tannins. The fruit is slow in coming, although there are hints of juiciness. Give it until 2017.
The 56 acres of this estate are in the heart of the Entre deux Mers region. This young and fruity wine has stalky black currant fruits and fresh acidity. There's a light touch of spicy wood and a crisp, red fruit aftertaste.
This lean wine lacks fruit to support the dry tannins. That probably comes from the extraction that has also caused some bitterness. It's a hard wine that needs time to soften.
From one of two properties in Listrac owned by the Thomas family (the other is Reverdi), this is seriously dark and tannic, with flavors of bitter chocolate extract and wood. It doesn't feel as if it will really soften enough.
Aromas jump between ripe plum and a dark earthy character, from graphite to wet slate. There is a quite a lot of zing on the palate, perhaps even a touch of carbonation, with flavors of cola and sassafras settling on a blackberry-juice backbone.
Moderately aromatic, this offers notes of red apple, jasmine, and peach. It drinks off dry leaning toward medium sweet, with abundant peach flavors with a creamy feel. It needs a bit more acidity to hold it all together.
This moderately aromatic wine offers notes of herbs, peach and soda water. It's medium sweet with lightly spritzy fruit flavors that have an herbal tinge.
Merlot (48%) takes the lead with no other variety making up more than 18% (Syrah) of the blend. It provides notes of bell pepper, dry chocolate, tire rubber and cherry. The feel is plush but with a sharp note running down the middle that distracts.
Fresh tangerine and orange blossom notes mingle with slightly yeasty, leesy aromas on this otherwise refreshing wine. It's dry in style with bright lime acidity and a lively finish.
The gravel soils of the 51-acre vineyard gives this wine its firm character as well as bringing out the fruitiness. While the wood-aging flavors are still strong, this will soften and round out soon for a fresh, fruity wine.
There's a definitely alkalinity emerging from the Rhône whites on this vineyard west of Gilroy, this one showing chalk along with dried honey. Waxy apple-skin flavors dominate the palate.
Smoke, dried reed and herb tones persist throughout this earthy, semidry Riesling. Pressed apple and pear flavors are savory as well, but brightened by a shower of tart tangerine acidity on the finish.
Candied cherry and red-plum aromas precede an edgy palate and herbal flavors of plum and berry that are slightly hot and spicy. Raspberry and red-currant flavors on the finish are dilute.
Aromas of roadside brush, field greens and raspberry are suggestive of fruit punch. The palate is full but somewhat cloying, while jammy red-fruit flavors come with a green note. The finish is jammy like the palate, with a pronounced chocolaty oak flavor.
This light and refreshing SB offers mild apple and citrus aromas, a snappy, citric palate and basic flavors of green apple and lime. As a whole, it's a cleansing but fairly standard wine.
This easy-drinking, value-minded wine offers notes of plum, tobacco, bell pepper and green herbs, with a vanilla top note. It's straightforward in style, with clunky tannins.
Peach and powdered sugar aromas are first up, followed by a round palate with oily weight but also zesty acidity. Racy citrus and nectarine flavors finish full and chunky, with a pithy note.
Simple cherry and plum aromas lead to a modest palate with little substance to it. Short bursts of red-fruit flavors are as basic as can be, while the finish is hollow but raw in feel.
This 100% varietal wine is lightly aromatic with peach, almond and pumpkin. It's cleanly made but the flavors seem dilute.
This wine offers intriguing notes of peach, mango and spice. It's lighter in style with just off-dry fruit flavors that linger.
A good choice when the wine needs to be a supporting player and not a star, this has neutral aromas, crisp acidity, lemon and cucumber flavors, light body and a texture that smooths out nicely.
Aromas arise slowly, though toasted oak, struck match and slightly sour fruits do emerge eventually. Flavors are straightforward, with scorched lemon and apple sauce.
Packed with wood, this shows some green-pepper character as well as the more juicy fruitiness. It has a lean profile, stalky with high acidity. Of course it will round out, although it seems likely to remain austere.
A separate cuvée produced from the vineyard of Château Beaumont, this has an earthy aroma, dense and extracted tannins, and still needs to find its balance. If it is to round out, it will need several years, although it could well remain tough.
Dark colored, this offers considerable wood aromas. It tastes dry and extracted, layering bitter coffee flavors on burnt toast. Mere hints of fruitiness seep through the big tannic structure.
Strong wood aromas continue into the palate of this burnt toast and bitter-chocolate-flavored wine. It is extracted and with a bitter edge. The juiciness from the fruit only emerges slowly and tentatively.
This moderately aromatic wine offers notes of yellow apple, flowers and ale. It's medium bodied with watery fruit flavors, pulling up short on the back half.
This wine offers green olive, tire rubber and sugared plum. It's elegant in style with lightly sweet blue fruit flavors.
This soft creampuff of a wine smells and tastes like pears, butter and vanilla, with a hint of lemon. This has a smooth, rich texture, a bit of sweetness, medium body and a buttery-tasting finish.
This 100% varietal wine conveys aromas of pear, melon and ale. It drinks off dry with herb and apple flavors, needing more acidity and concentration to keep it all together.
Coral in color, this dry wine's light, fresh watermelon aromas lead to tasty raspberry and cherry flavors, backed by bright acidity. It's medium bodied and mouth-filling, maintaining a refreshing, appetizing quality through the finish.
The nose promises ripe, red cherry fruit and the palate delivers with a sprightly, bouncy, juicy red that's full of freshness. Wonderfully unpretentious fruit shines, with a little pepper spice to liven things up.
Tangy boysenberry and elderberry fruit shows on the nose of this sultry bottling, along with thyme, potpourri and licorice. The flavors are more cooked than fresh, recalling charred blackberry, dried blueberry, leather and licorice. It's a hearty wine that consumes the entire palate.
This pink stands out for its Ruby Red grapefruit aromas, backed by touches of orange peel and chalk. The mouthfeel is grippy and energetic, recalling again a grapefruit's juice and pith. A perfect breakfast wine.
This blend of 42% Grenache, 37% Mourvèdre, 16% Syrah and 5% Petite Sirah offers plum and mulberry aromas, with touches of thyme and sage. The palate delivers a similar range of dried fruit and wild herb flavors, showing dark strawberry and plenty of savory garrigue.
The vineyard is on the slopes of the Massif des Maures, on the way to Saint-Tropez. This special cuvée is ripe and full in the mouth. It has a bone-dry texture, balancing fruit and spice. This serious wine will be ready from late 2017.
This is a screaming deal for such an admirably good wine, blended with smaller amounts of Petite Sirah and Syrah. Compressed black fruit meets fresh leather on the perfumed nose. The palate follows with thick tannins and mouthcoating flavors of licorice and cinnamon.
The Fillippini family has been growing grapes in eastern Paso Robles since 1982, and this is among their better modern bottlings. The nose offers light sandalwood, ripe cranberry and river stone mineral scents. Its punchy berry fruit is underlaid with leather and cigar accents on the palate, where buoyant acidity and grippy tannic structure pervades.
Cabernet Sauvignon makes up half of this wine, with the balance Merlot (31%), Malbec (15%) and Cabernet Franc. Barrel notes of vanilla and baking spice are up front, followed by herb and dark fruit tones that are backed by lively acidity. It currently drinks very tight. Give it some time in the cellar or an extended decant. Best after 2020.
Distinct dried pear, apricot and sultana notes signal some evolution in this wine. The same, rich dried fruit notes are accented with zesty grapefruit freshness on the dry, concentrated palate. It finishes with pithy bitterness and a moreish streak of lemon. Rather advanced for the vintage but still evolving. Drink now–2022.
This wine leads with the fruity scent of fresh Conference and yellow pear. Its slightly spritzy palate comes with some yeasty, herbal savoriness and finishes fresh and dry.
This traditional method  sparkler opens with a genteel toastiness on the nose and palate. Fresh and bright fruit flavors suggest apples dusted with cinnamon. It's vintage dated and sourced from a single vineyard. Beware when opening–the cork virtually exploded from the bottle as soon as the capsule was loosened!
Reduced when first opened, this wine shows its lemony, fresh apple notes with a bit of air. It has the lovely midpalate texture and freshness inherent to good Chardonnay and fills the mouth with citrus and orchard fruit notes. Slender, structured and fresh-faced, it only needs some time to breathe.
An appetizing touch of red currant and cranberry plays on the nose of this vividly colored rosé. The palate is fruit-forward with subtle shades of berry and citrus. The finish is refreshing and berry-laden.
This is both fruity and deliciously crisp. It has the light touch of the vintage—red fruits attractively balancing with the acidity and the tangy lemon edge. The aftertaste is both fruity and herbal. Drink now.
Pristine black cherries and berries extend from nose to finish in this deeply concentrated Pinot Noir. Invigorating acidity and firm grippy tannins accentuate its bold four-square palate. Finishes long, with a delicate murmur of spice and cedar. Drink now through 2025.
Friendly, ripe green and yellow apple notes appear on both the nose and palate of this wine. Ripe but fresh acidity enlivens its easy, juicy, textured midpalate. Its clean, sunny and fruity finish makes it a pleasure to sip.
2015's ripe red cherry fruit is presented here in a compact, taut, and concentrated package of freshness and verve. It has lovely pepper spice and ample freshness, giving focus to its lovely, crunchy, fresh cherry fruit.
Passion fruit touches accent the yeasty top notes of this wine, lending a richer, riper aspect. The palate has a distinct yeasty tone, leavened by ample citrus freshness, lots of flavorsome texture and refreshing length.
Protected by the Massif de Sainte-Baume, kept dry and sunny with the Mistral winds that blow down the Rhône Valley, this vineyard can produce ripe wines like this. It has a crisp cool feel to it, bright with acidity as well as red currant and tangy orange. This is a delicious wine, with a fruity aftertaste.
This is on the green side, but not overdone, offering grassy, herbal aromas and a touch of citrus fruit. Attractive cut grass and lime notes mark the medium-bodied palate and extend through the finish. Drink now.
A touch of yeast still lingers on the nose of this Riesling. The palate is a lovely, zesty marriage of citrus flavors—orange, tangerine peel, tart grapefruit and lemon. Its pithy texture carries beautifully into a dry, zesty, citrus-tinged finish, feeling clean and moreish.
This blends 53% Cabernet Sauvignon and 42% Merlot with smaller amounts of Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot. It offers juicy, ripe blueberry and coffee flavors, soft tannins and a moderate oak imprint.
Although this wine's nose is shy, its palate is ripe, fresh, compact and elegant at the same time. For the ripe 2015 vintage, it's wonderfully balanced and fresh—an honest, simply lovely, red-fruited wine with sheer drinkability that would also do well when slightly chilled.
After an initial clarified butter aroma invites one in, this fleshy, full-bodied white is smooth and delicate, taking on body and weight as it develops in the glass. Anise, green apple and pineapple flavors meet a coterie of toasted oak and smoke.
Pale salmon in color, but quite robust in flavor and alcohol, this brings concentrated flavors of watermelon and raspberries, with all the freshness of the newest vintage. It's bright and focused, the very picture of what is most exciting about these seasonal Northwest rosés.
A touch of cinnamon hovers above this wine's abundant, ripe, red and black cherry fruit. The palate is fluid, juicy and bouncy, with a warming core of spice. Freshness balances and guides everything. Very harmonious and honest.
This wine's citrus blossom and ripe orchard fruit aromas lead to a tangy palate. Round and savory, it doles out creamy green apple, white peach and tangerine drop flavors.
From one of the four Pinot Noir vineyards that this producer controls as monopoles, this dark-hued bottling shows blackberry, black plum, clove and star anise aromas. Tart cranberry, sour cherry and strawberry fruit marks the palate, rounded with rose petal and sage elements.
Vanilla, spiced plum and coconut aromas follow through to the round, concentrated palate, joining espresso, oak, fleshy raspberry and licorice notes. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol and round supple tannins that provide gentle support. Drink through 2020.
Made from 35% Obeidi, an indigenous grape usually reserved for Arak production, 35% Clairette, 15% Sauvignon Blanc and 15% Chardonnay, this wine is medium straw in the glass and has a nose of peach, Turkish delight and lilac. It is full in the mouth, offering flavors of ripe summer peach, rose petal and eucalyptus. The final moments are punctuated by a delightful blend of soft peach and strong mint flavors.
The texture and structure of this wine may be light but the fruitiness is so appealing. Soft and ripe with red-berry fruit flavors and refreshing acidity, it will develop quickly and be ready to drink from 2017.
This wine is two-thirds Syrah with the balance Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese. Reticent aromas of vanilla, woodspice, cigar box and plum lead to elegantly styled fruit and barrel flavors that trail toward the finish.
From vines that sit at 1,000 feet overlooking Monterey and the Carmel Valley, this wine only went through partial malolactic fermentation. It shows a tight nose of lemon-laced sour cream and grapefruit blossoms. Lime peels, more sour cream and stronger grapefruit-pith flavors mark the tight, tart palate that has firmness that will mellow with age.
Raspberry, herb and sugared-plum aromas are followed by easy-drinking red-fruit flavors that show a sense of balance that keeps the interest high.
Merlot and Cabernet Franc make up the majority of this blend. The aromas of dried herbs, pencil lead, cherry and spice are subdued while the palate brings a somewhat elegant style, with the tannins seeming a bit bunched up.
Essentially this is a rosé of Merlot, with just 5% Muscat blended in. Strawberry and watermelon fruit is light and lively, with an undercurrent of orange juice, perhaps from that Muscat. Merlot-based rosés tend to fall a bit on the tannic side, which here adds grip to the finish.
A nose of black cherry, cocoa and juniper berry paves the way for flavors of tart cherry, white chocolate, cocoa and orange zest. Bright fruit compensates for strong tannins, and although there is a cranberry burst towards, the finish tannins remain on the lips and tongue.
The aromas of barrel spice, pear and melon are light and deft. The flavors display elegance, restraint and nuance.
Fig and fennel star in this block-designated white that is crisp and fresh around a medium-strength body. Ready for the table, it finishes quick and clean.
This Macedonian wine made from 100% Žilavka has aromas of honeysuckle and peach. Balanced in the mouth, it has flavors of green papaya and tart pineapple.
The yellow apple, melon and spice aromas are bright and inviting. The palate is fresh and clean, with broad, vibrant flavors playing nicely against a tart finish.
Scorched earth, game, cured meat and leather waft out of the glass. The taught palate offers dried black cherry, pomegranate roasted coffee bean, anise and a vanilla note but not quite enough fruit richness. Tightly wound, grainy tannins leave an astringent finish. Give the tannins a few more years to unwind then drink.
This is a blend of 43% Cabernet Sauvignon, 36% Merlot and 21% Cabernet Franc, soft and round with tightly wound tannins. Cedar and cigar box punch on the palate, finishing in a strong note of tobacco.
The aromas of blue and red fruit are direct and appealing, with dried herbs providing a grace note. The currant flavors are plump with lightly grainy tannins backing them up.
This is a rounded, ripe and full-bodied wine, with spice and light toastiness that give richness. Apple and green-plum flavors are enhanced by the creamy texture and touches of apricots. It is young and drinkable now, although will likely be much better from the end of 2016.
Full in the mouth, this rich wine comes from vineyards in the hillside valley above Puligny-Montrachet. It has something of the same balance between ripe fruit and a steely texture. The acidity is there, embedded in the toast and ripe pear flavors. Drink from 2017.
Chocolate-wrapped stogie comes to mind aromatically and in terms of taste in this reserve wine, which is otherwise roundly voluptuous. Peppercorn, cedar and plum mingle on the palate before a tannic finish closes things out.
There's been an evolution taking place at this house, with new oak no longer ubiquitous in the offerings. In fact, this wine is aged solely in concrete, which allows charming hints of lavender and thyme to shine among the cherry and cocoa notes. It's full-bodied yet firm, so pair it with burgers or steaks off the grill.
A unique offering of the variety, this wine displays aromas of fresh and dried tobacco, allspice, smoke and blue fruit. The plum flavors are sweet and supple, showing good concentration with a mesquite-filled finish.
Aromas of raspberry jam, toasted oak, menthol and roasted coffee bean open. The firm palate offers dried blackberry, mocha and licorice with assertive, close-grained tannins. An espresso note signals the close.
Mature berry, pressed rose petal and exotic spice pave the way on this easygoing red while the medium-bodied palate boasts juicy black cherry, clove and a hint of coffee. Round tannins provide support. Drink through 2018.
Pressed violet, underbrush, overripe black-skinned fruit and a hint of scorched earth come together on this. The warm, forward palate has a rather rustic charm, delivering mature plum, crushed black cherry, baking spice, leather and a bitter, earthy note accompanied by round, evolved tannins.
A little air unlocks aromas of underbrush, scorched earth, blue flower, toasted oak and mature berry. On the firm palate, notes of espresso and licorice add some depth to the core of dried black cherry while grippy, close-grained tannins provide support.
This is a silky, ready-to-drink red. Cherry and plum fruit mingle easily with earth, leather and mocha, finishing on a softly dusty note. Drink now–2023.
From a high altitude estate in the Vaucluse, this blend of 60% Grenache, 35% Syrah and 5% Cinsault is pale and coppery in hue, yet shows ample richness and weight on the palate. Notes of wet stone, berry and citrus linger on the mouthwatering finish.
Reticent herb, mineral, barrel spice and red-apple aromas are followed by concentrated fruit flavors. The tannins this vineyard is often known for are kept well in check.
This fresh, crisp wine has plenty of lively citrus fruits that are enriched by red apple and zesty orange flavors. The wine is already delicious in its fruitiness and ready to drink.
Blended with 7% Syrah and smaller proportions of Petit Verdot, Malbec, Cabernet Franc and other grapes, this well-made wine is restrained in style.It shows crisp red fruit, orange and cranberry loaded around dusty tannins, big oak and chocolate.
This rounded, smooth wine will be delicious to drink. It is full of crisp white fruits, laced with lemon acidity while having a full, ripe character. From clay and chalk soil, it is forward, fruity and ready to drink now.
Slightly funky notions appear first: There's a hint of reduction but this, thankfully, blows off. Underneath sits a very sprightly, very fresh wine that pits fruity apple mellowness against total, dry freshness. This has a concentrated core, the aromas are still a little tinged by the flinty, smoky hints of reduction but this will stand them in good stead for cellar age. Give this some time. Drink 2020–2030.
A lovely lemony lift jumps from the glass and immediately signals maturing Riesling. The palate is still taut with freshness but has the harmonious balminess of bottle age. Hints of dried pear and candied lemon peel appear. The palate is as precise and taut as ever, brightened by utter apple and citrus crispness. The finish is long, dry and utterly clean cut.
Leafy underbrush, new leather, dark berry and chopped herb aromas waft out of the glass. The fresh, chewy palate doles out succulent wild cherry, ripe raspberry, white pepper and cinnamon notes, blanketed in smooth, round tannins. A licorice note caps off the finish. It's already delicious but will also offer fine drinking over the next several years. Drink 2018–2024.
With a touch of reduction from its 18-month maturation in new French oak, this wine is concentrated and youthful, still unwinding. Tangerine and peach flavors contrast with the more expected bite of apple, while moderate acidity brings freshness to the full-bodied nature of this rich, rewarding white.
Beautifully pure notes of crisp Cox's Orange Pippin apples shine on the nose. The palate is equally tart and wonderfully refreshing. This is a high-wire act of freshness and stony depth. You think you can almost taste the stone underneath all of these beautifully expressed apple notes that are pervaded by zesty freshness. What an invigorating, lip-smacking finish. This is lovely now but will develop. Drink now through 2030.
A darker take on the grape for the estate, this bottling shows black tea, violet, dark cherry, bay and a touch of tar on the nose. Deep boysenberry fruit pops on the palate, lifted by brighter notes of dill, eucalyptus and menthol.
Steve Clifton's music-inspired project heads to the Syrah-focused appellation of Ballard Canyon to produce this well-hewn bottling that kicks off with boysenberry, hibiscus, rose bud and white pepper aromas. Tart elderberry jam flavors meld with wild thyme and savory pepper spice on the complex palate, which culminates in a mouthwatering finish.
Forest, mint and campfire scents are complemented by brambly black cherry in this explosively complex wine. Soft and subtle, it has juicy layers of cranberry, orange and maraschino, with a roundness and firmness to the strong tannin. The finish is all about coffee, cardamom and five spice.
Austere, tannic and chewy, this Cabernet could use a few years in the cellar. Classic mint and cassis notes are framed by cedar and vanilla, but the fruit comes through on the firm, dusty finish, a sign of positive things to come. Drink 2020–2030.
This is a tiny production wine in its third vintage that continues to impress—a deft concoction of dusty leather and pencil shavings that's elegantly structured and integrated. Red currant and clove add seasoning to ripe blackberry and dark chocolate flavors.
This is the second wine of Grand Cru Classé Château la Gaffelière. It revels in ripe juicy Merlot while keeping a sense of style and elegance. Produced by the Malet-Roquefort family, owners since 1705, the wine has some firm tannins while never losing sight of the generous black fruits. Drink from 2022.
This estate, dating to the 18th century and close to the Gironde estuary, has produced a rich wine. Young tannins and fine fruity acidity are both present in a wine that is serious and dense. Its weight, ripeness and the potential of the black-currant fruit will all allow it to age. Drink from 2022.
Named for a small volcanic outcrop on the Niven family's sprawling property, this bottling from winemaker Christian Roguenant shows hearty black cherry, vanilla and star anise spice on the nose. The palate is extremely floral, with lavender, violet and elderflower scents, along with plum skin and crushed-slate flavors.
Lifted hints of chamomile and apple peel rise straight from the glass. The palate has the same streamlined citrus focus and just homes in on that sleek dry apple freshness that seem to be a dynamic force at the center of this wine. The flavors are concentrated and totally dominated by utter lemon freshness, tart and vivid to the last. Lovely now but with further potential. Drink now through 2030.
The second wine of Angélus is almost as structured as the first wine. It has serious tannins and dark acidity. At the same time, the fruit is rich with black-currant flavors. It is solid with plenty of potential. Drink this very fine wine from 2023.
Subtle hints of tart apples appear first, then there is the merest touch of quince, even a touch of lemon balm. The palate pans out aromatically, always in that apple and quince spectrum, and has a brightening crisp edge of freshness and absolute concentration and dryness. With more air, the aromatic lemon balm note adds its special perfume to this wine. This is invigorating and enlivening.
A sensational bottle at this price, it's ripe and textural, with a plush mix of strawberry and cherry fruit. The flavors evolve throughout a lengthy finish, adding layers of chocolate, malt and caramel, all in beautiful proportion.
Made from a separate parcel of the Valandraud estate, this is a fruity, ripe wine. Dark tannins and flavors of dark chocolate combine with great fruit and acidity. It is still packed with tannins and will take plenty of time to come round. Drink from 2024.
New leather, truffle, sun-baked soil, menthol and grilled herb aromas practically jump out of the glass. The big, chewy palate delivers mature wild cherry, black raspberry, licorice and tobacco notes, set against a backdrop of firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2020–2027.
This well-tuned vineyard is a favorite among many Oregon vintners. Here are well-entwined streaks of tea, berry and tobacco leaf. It's textural and detailed, yet retains a certain delicacy that rewards your extra attention as it lingers across the palate.
There's compelling balance between the baked red cherry fruit, graphite-like minerality and brown spice on the nose of this bottling, further enhanced by leather and earth aromas. Bright raspberry meets with cooked strawberry and licorice flavors on the palate, where a somewhat frothy texture is powered by acidity atop soft yet somewhat structuring tannins.
The richest and most generous hints of dried pear and fruit loaf rise from the glass. The palate continues in the same, generous vein with plenty of pear, shimmering and scintillating with juicy, mellow and just off-dry ripeness. This is countered by fresh lemon zestiness and leaves a totally balanced and very lasting impression. There are pleasant highlights of bitterness and that pervasive sense of pear fruit just lasts and lasts.
Enticing pressed rose, iris, woodland berry, Mediterranean brush and game aromas emerge from this succulent red. The palate is savory, doling out ripe wild cherry, black raspberry, grilled herb, white pepper flavors with a hint of sea salt. Firm but refined tannins and tangy acidity provide polished support. Drink 2020–2028.
Rounded and rich, this single-vineyard wine is concentrated without losing a touch of its beautiful fruit. It has a fine balance between fruit and acidity as well as a tense line of minerality and tight texture. Drink this impressive wine from 2024.
This is a blockbuster of a wine, impressive in its smoky oak and crisp black currant brightness. Soft, integrated tannin supports a full-bodied, lush palate that has plenty of length and breadth, seasoned with black licorice, pepper and clove.
A bold and brawny wine from a relatively cool appellation, this red satisfies with its commingling of violet, meat and leathery black pepper aromas. Despite its brambly depth and concentration, it allows for a satisfying twist of freshness on the finish.
Rich aromas of juicy peach and Damask rose have the lovely and tempering edge of grapefruit zest. The palate gives us the same welcomed counterpoint of zesty aromatic freshness and perfumed opulence. This has lovely fluid freshness, couched in sumptuous flavors. This is exquisitely balanced and finishes just about still dry.
A blend of equal parts of Merlot, Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese, this opens with mature blackberry, cedar and underbrush aromas. The juicy, creamy palate delivers black cherry, black currant, mint and tobacco flavors, with velvety tannins and a long finish. Enjoy through 2028.
This opens with inviting, classic Sangiovese aromas: woodland berry, forest floor, new leather, violet and truffle. The youthfully taut palate isn't quite as expressive—yet—but already offers Marasca cherry, white pepper and star anise notes. It's primary in its flavors now but will develop complexity over the next decade and then maintain well for years. Drink 2022–2032.
A lovely mix of gentle rose petal, sandalwood and honeysuckle perfumes the nose. The palate has an earthy element, grounding these flavors and a texture of silky peach skin, along with soft peachy fruit. The body is light and lifted—an almost weightless pleasure—but with concentration and lasting flavors. This is a compact bundle of aromatic joy.
This is a bold wine with aromas like Concord grapes, and flavors so ripe they are almost jammy, but it also has lively acidity and moderate tannins to keep the texture fresh. There is little oak flavor to get in the way of the pure expression of the grapes.
Light peach and apricot aromas meet richer, riper pear and vanilla flavors and a creamy texture for a medium-bodied, palate-pleasing taste.
This is a fresh, juicy wine with acidity and bright red fruits. Yes, there are tannins but they support the lively, crisp strawberries and the spice that comes from the wood aging. The wine is developing fast and will be ready to drink from 2018.
A very light yellow-plum fruitiness colors nose and palate of this fresh, easy and soft white. Plummy friendliness is matched by equally sunny lemon freshness, resulting in a balanced, fruity, easy-drinking wine.
This is tight, tannic and offers red-currant fruits. It has a dusty texture along with layers of acidity, spice and hints of wood aging. The wine is fresh with bright fruitiness and good acidity. The tannins do suggest aging potential, so don't drink before 2019.
Ripe, juicy pear appears as a pristine, expressive flavor on nose and palate. Body and structure are light and just off dry. Drink soon while at its delicious peak.
This wine is ripe with generous strawberry flavors and perfumed acidity. A smoky edge accompanies tastes of red cherry. The wine is rounded and light with attractive final acidity.
This perfumed, fruit-forward wine is ripe with red berries and sweet tannins. The aftertaste brings in the freshness of the year.
Smoky and structured, this is a dry wine with only the acidity to hint at the berry fruits to come. With this firm, toasty tannic character, the wine is likely to remain structured for a while to come. Drink from 2020.
A real evocation of fresh, crisp and crunchy apple delivers freshness and punch on the easy-drinking but fresh, clean and joyful palate. Drink this soon, if possible at a summer party where this slender wine will come into its refreshing own.
Longtime value producer Firesteed has another winner. This pretty Pinot shows excellent ripeness and full-bodied fruit flavor, thanks to the southern-Oregon components. Strawberries and tart raspberries come through cleanly, with a touch of cola in the aftertaste.
Soft, gentle and generous cherry notes color the nose and light palate. This is pliable and has pleasant edges of peppery, tingling spice and freshness.
Aromas of citrus blossom, lemon and fragrant wild flower open. The fresh, juicy palate offers lemon zest, mature apricot and grilled oregano while a tangy saline note backs up the finish.
Slightly muddled pear and earth flavors appear on the nose. The palate is far more defined, with fresh pear notes and distant hints of pineapple. This is dry, full-fruited and fresh.
No longer an oddity, making a white wine out of Pinot Noir creates a most useful alternative to Chardonnay. Apples and white peaches abound, with a full, creamy mouthfeel. It's round and fresh with a pleasing sprinkle of cinnamon spice.
Co-fermented with a small amount of Viognier, this wine opens in a flurry of sunflower before unleashing bold, firm flavors and layers of dense tannin and concentrated blackberry and cherry. The tannin continues to expand on the finish.
Citrus and red-fruit aromas make for an attractive, perfumed wine. On the palate, a fresh character comes from the red currant and raspberry fruits. It is light and bright with a tight, mineral aftertaste.
More assertive and full-bodied than many versions, this wine smells like snap peas and spring flowers, but gets richer on the palate as peach flavors come out and mingle nicely in the unusually rich texture.
Herb, strawberry, cigar box and orange twist aromas provide interest. The palate is broad in feel, with lightly styled fruit flavors that deliver.
The Stewart cuvée is lightly smoky, with plenty of up-front flavor. It marries cherry fruit to citrusy acidity, with a chunky, robust core and a crisp, clean finish.
Grapefruit aromas, bright kiwi and apple flavors and appetizing acidity make a lively, refreshing wine. This will be thirst-quenching on hot summer days and good with seafood, goat cheese and many other dishes any time of the year.
Strong blueberry and black-cherry aromas mesh with cedar spice and tobacco ash on this rather elegant nose. A balsamic blueberry reduction flavor shows on the palate, where fine-grained tannins also present smashed vanilla flavors.
Made in an approachable style, light-bodied and yet showing an attractive level of richness, there's melon, oak and honey at this wine's core, accented by pretty floral notes of apple blossom and pie.
Can't-miss aromas of petrol, wet stones and lime will have you thinking this is Riesling, but the blend is two-thirds Garnacha Blanca and the rest Macabeo. Tight and well cut on the palate, this tastes of melon, lime and peach pit. A quick, lean finish works.
Bright black cherry animates the aromas and flavors of this medium-bodied wine. It is firm in texture, not too complicated or overripe, but just nice and easy to drink.
This pretty light pink wine's acidic bounty is apparent on first sniff, as the underripe raspberry aromas are cut by a baking soda-like freshness. The sip of this mostly Grenache-based pinkie is all about the sizzle, where more club soda zest is painted with a light bubblegum flavor.
The wine comes from a large 300 acre vineyard in the eastern Costa Serena region. Dominated by Niellucciu (aka Sangiovese), it brings out all the acidity of the grape, restrained by ripe raspberry and apple fruitiness. It is a light, bright and crisp wine.
This opens with delicate aromas that recall pear, yellow stone fruit and a whiff of almond. The juicy palate presents yellow peach, citrus and a hint of hazelnut alongside fresh acidity.
Round and juicy, this offers enticing scents of white flower, mature apple, citrus and pear that carry over to the palate along with honeydew melon and a hint of aromatic herb. Fresh acidity balances the ripe fruit flavors.
Light red cherry, dried sage, black tea and thyme show on the nose of this bottling from the iconic facility in the heart of its namesake valley. There is a lot of action on the palate, where tart cherry and plum skin flavors meet with dried mint and earthy shrub elements.
Fresh and savory, this opens with aromas of dark berry, ground cooking spice and whiff of chopped herb. The vibrant palate doles out juicy black cherry, clove, star anise and blood orange accompanied by racy acidity.
Spiced blueberry, ripe plum and tilled earth aromas lead the nose on this hearty wine. Made with no added sulfites, the big, chewy palate delivers juicy black cherry, ripe blackberry and licorice alongside the warmth of evident alcohol.
This opens with rather funky aromas of scorched earth, overripe black-skinned fruit and a whiff of barnyard. The extracted palate offers mature black cherry, toast, espresso and a gamey note alongside tightly packed tannins. A note of roasted coffee bean signals the close.
Pretty scents and flavors of bright cherry fruit come up quickly, with enough concentration to batten down a medium-long finish. A light hint of sweat or animal comes up also.
This medium-bodied red opens with aromas of toasted oak, mature berry and freshly brewed coffee. The tight palate offers dried black cherry, white pepper, espresso, and a hint of licorice framed in fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2020.
From vines planted to the west of Chablis, this is a soft, ripe and fruity wine. It has some tension from the minerality while keeping the white fruit flavors to the fore. Drink now or, better, from late 2016.
Made from old vines, this ripe and concentrated wine is smooth and creamy. Good acidity balances the rich fruits, giving flavors of apples, pears and apricots cut by a line of citrus. The wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2017.
Luscious peach and blossom notes perfume this plucky off-dry Riesling. Laced with honey and tart tangerine acidity, it's easy, fresh and approachable. Drink now.
Still so young, this herbal, fruity wine is as crisp as possible. It is packed with lemon, grapefruit and tight acidity, needing to age. Drink this tense, steely wine from late 2016.
A blend of Pinot Meunier and Chardonnay, this is crisp while also rounded. Fresh, tight acidity under a creamy texture brings out the sliced apple and Rocha pear flavors. There's no need to age this bottling; it's ready to drink.
Sanguine and velvety, this richly derived wine made from one clone of Pinot Noir is tannic in black cherry, cinnamon and tar, with a lean, mid-length finish.
Fresh and full-bodied, this offers aromas of black-skinned fruit, underbrush and dark cooking spice. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, plum jam and black pepper alongside polished tannins and fresh acidity.
Aromas of ripe grapes and vanilla make for a lush, inviting nose on this fruit-forward bottling of 49.5% Sangiovese, 49.5% Cabernet Sauvignon and 1% Malbec. The juicy palate shows blackberries and black cherries as well as licorice and dark chocolate, with strong tannins giving textural balance.
This is a warm and rich wine from the southern Mâcon region. It is ripe with yellow fruits, crisp apples and a touch of minerality that gives the tangy texture. Packed with fruit as well as structured, this wine can be drunk now, although better from 2017.
From one of the villages that lies behind the primary Chardonnay vineyards of the Côte de Beaune, this is already smooth, fruity and perfumed. It has attractive acidity and a rich, baked apple character that is pointed up by the layer of toastiness. Drink now, although the wine will be better from 2017.
Not many Grand Cru wines are made into a Sec style of Champagne. This wine is more soft than sweet, with plenty of acidity as well as a touch of honey. Soft and round at the end, the wine is balanced and ready to drink.
This is an open juicy and fruity wine. It has soft tannins and perfumed acidity that is already integrated into the structure of the wine. With blackberry and red plum flavors, it is easy and generous, ready to drink now.
Fresh, ripe and fruity, this is a rich wine, produced from vines to the west of Reims. It has perfumed wild strawberry flavors and acidity. Attractively crisp at the end, it's a ready-to-drink wine that will be just right as an apéritif.
From the producer's estate vineyard, the grapes planted on budwood from Napa Valley's famous Three Palms, this wine is bittersweet in tannin and flavor, a mix of blueberry, cedar, resin and clove. Full bodied in style, it maintains an elegance on the finish, marked irresistibly in dark chocolate.
Richly ripe in black cherry and chocolate, this is a blend of Merlot, Petite Sirah, Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Zinfandel and Petit Verdot. Generous tannins give way to a soft, smooth mouthfeel and a burst of blackberry and leather, finishing in spicy cinnamon and black pepper.
This wine shows perfumed lychee on the nose, before weightier tones of melon, lemon and oak enter the picture, providing a richness of body and power. The oak and a sprinkling of nutmeg remain firm and focused on the finish.
With a nose that's quite neutral, the sun-kissed, fruity flair of this dry Riesling surprises. It's a juicy, straightforward wine but briskly, elegantly composed as well. Drink now.
Golden honey in color and tone, this white is nonetheless crisp, adorned in orange blossom and a taste of white peach, the minerality never in question. Half of the fruit is estate grown, with 8% Marsanne blended in.
Brambly berry flavors carry a streak of cola throughout this wine, 80% of which was whole-cluster fermented. The pleasant fruit is somewhat offset with chalky acids and drying tannins.
Quite a solid deal from an expert Zin house, this wine shows aromas of candied cherry and pomegranate, with cinnamon, a hint of tar and a little crushed espresso bean. Dried blueberries enliven the palate, along with mineral tones and more cinnamon-based baking spice.
While the nose is restrained, the palate of this Spätlese Riesling abounds in sweet-tart nectarine, peach and tangerine flavors. Primary and fresh, it's an uncomplicated yet vibrantly penetrating wine. Drink now.
Black cherry to the eye, this wine holds back on the nose, offering restrained aromas of black currant and roasted yellow pepper. Flavors include raspberry, blueberry, violet, lavender, thyme and roasted meat. It has lightly grippy tannins and there is a distinct note of Dr. Pepper on the finish.
Plum, French oak, coffee, vanilla and Oriental spice aromas emerge in the glass. The concentrated palate offers mature black cherry, blackberry jam, vanilla and licorice alongside fine-grained tannins.
Crisp and fresh aromas of lime sorbet and iced apple flesh greet the nose on this Riboli family bottling. The palate is steely and bright, with Anjou pear flesh, a bit of smoke and some red-apple ripeness.
There is no lack of dark, smoky flavors in this 100% varietal bottling. Leather, cola, cassis, tar, burnt rubber and smoke all whirl about, with an underlying impression of dried leaves. The listed flavors may not stir you with longing when named in this way, but taken all together and accompanied by a bowl of beef stew, they will satisfy.
This is your everyday Cab, dry and tannic, but with rich, ripe black currant and cassis flavors that lead to the long finish. Drink now, but you'll want to decant it for a few hours.
ensations include white flowers, juicy white peach, green apple, mango, and toasted almond. The supple palate is supported by crisp acidity that leaves a refreshing finish.
Pale in color, it's bone dry and crisp in acidity. It shows subtle flavors of rosehip tea, orange peel and persimmons, with a scour of grape skin tannins. Perfect pairings include sausages and pâté.
Sixty-year-old vines give concentration to this rich, dense wine. The wood aging adds spice and smokiness that don't detract from the ripe berry fruits, black currants and solid tannins. Drink from 2016.
A wood-aged red Vinho Verde brings out some richness in the Vinhão grape. With its already-red juice, the wine has surprising weight and ripeness with black currant fruit to the fore. Drink now.
This is a big and ripe wine, with flavors of chocolate and blackberry. Dense tannins dominate, although the rich berry fruits and acidity promise a more fruity future. It's worth waiting; drink from 2018.
One of the many Saint-Emilion properties that are able to make use of the Figeac name, this small estate offers an attractive, fruity 2011. There is a dry core, but it's the ripe black fruits that dominate. It will age quickly, so drink from 2016.
A ripe, smooth and fruity wine that is already delicious in its ripe berry and plum flavors. Touches of new wood show how it is still developing, a burst of vanilla followed by fruity acidity. It will be a full, ripe wine, but give it until 2016.
Smooth and rich, this is already a delicious wine. It has soft tannins, a touch of wood aging and swathes of ripe black plum fruits. Gently structured, with some smokiness, it's going to age relatively quickly, so drink from 2016.
Fragrant and flowery, this is a ripe, full-bodied and structured wine. The violets often present in Syrah are here in force, giving an aromatic wine that also has plenty of black fruits and tannins to give power. It's worth aging, so drink from 2017.
Woody, smoky notes lend an attractive Alpine flair to savory apple and piercing lime flavors in this medium-sweet Riesling. It's refreshingly mineral on the palate, with layers of crushed rock and chalk that linger long on the finish.
Young, sappy and still quite tart, this wine needs a bit more time in the bottle to really pull itself together. Cranberry and raspberry fruit is at the core, clean and lip-smacking, with strong streaks of smoke and char from aging in 50% new French oak.
Predominantly Sangiovese, this opens with aromas of wet soil, black fruit, toast and baking spices. The palate delivers fleshy black cherry and prune accented with black pepper, tobacco and a hint of mocha alongside solid tannins. It's reached its ideal drinking window so enjoy now.
Earthy, mellow aromas of cherry and baked berry set up a grabby, tannic mouthfeel. Flavors of lactic oak, vanilla, chocolate and medicinal berry finish with oak-based resin as well as mild stickiness. The blend is Syrah, Carignan, Malbec and Petit Verdot.
Whiffs of struck flint and smoke add complexity to pretty bergamot and citrus notes on the palate of this off-dry Riesling. It's refreshing, with pristine apple and lemon flavors and a moderately long finish, offering a hint of lemon-zest astringency.
Only lightly wood aged, this is a fruity wine with a touch of spice, some peaches and fragrant acidity. It is delicious wine and ready to drink.
This brand is from the resourceful Don Sebastiani & Sons of Sonoma County. It's a great example of the company's ability to find superb fruit and raise it into fine wine, and then sell it at a fair price. The wine is rich and pleasurable in blackberries and cherries, with a fine overlay of smoky oak.
A full-bodied Pinot Grigio aged in large casks, it starts with aromas of yellow flowers, golden apples, oak and vanilla. The structured palate offers toasted oak and hints of butterscotch alongside ripe pear, lemon drop and mineral.
Dark berry aromas come with accents of spice, graphite and raisin on this ripe, healthy wine. In the mouth, this is medium to full in size, with proper balance. Flavors of blueberry and plum lead to a mellow finish that delivers lasting ripeness and clean lines.
A blend of half Sémillon and half Chardonnay, this is an aromatic, fully fleshed-out wine that veers into richness without going too far. Swirling in layers of concentrated pear and lemon, it provides a long, substantial finish, ending in balanced acidity.
Made in a more full-bodied style than many other Russian River Pinots, this one's a little heavy and soft. But it is delicious, offering tiers of raspberries, cherries, cola, licorice, brown sugar and toasty oak. Drink now.
This wine starts off dry, austere and brisk in acidity. Then the tropical fruit, peach and green apples hit, followed almost immediately by richer notes of crème brûlée and vanilla honey. A nice selections at an attractive price.
A smattering of oak flavors rounds out this naturally warm and tropical fruit flavored wine. It is rich, smooth and opulent in texture, delicious already, but really needing until 2015 to age.
Mainly from Castelão with a little Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a ripe, full-bodied and complex wine. Tannins shoot through the solid black fruits, while acidity laces the texture. Flavors of chocolate, spice and final freshness promising short-term aging. Drink from 2015.
Meaty plum and berry aromas introduce a full, round, balanced palate. Flavors of tobacco, fresh herbs, plum and berry come with earthy hints and a wave of chocolaty oak. Carob, peppercorn and herbal flavors drive a pleasant finish.
A soft, ripe apple-flavored Champagne, it is fresh and crisp. With its gentle mousse and fruitiness, it is ready to drink as a youthful wine, and not likely to benefit from bottle age.
This pretty wine opens with floral and apple aromas that carry over to the glass along with juicy pear and a hint of white peach. The creamy palate is uplifted by vibrant acidity that makes it an ideal wine for lightly seasoned fish dishes or grilled vegetables.
A blend of 60% Pinot Bianco, 30% Chardonnay and 10% Sauvignon, this reveals a fragrance of white flowers and tree fruit. The juicy palate delivers white peach, yellow apple and a mineral note alongside fresh acidity.
This rich, intense wine has a strong tannic element that is balanced with the red and black berry fruits. There's a burst of acidity, but the main thrust of this wine is structure and concentration.
This is a well made, fruit and tannin wine. With delicious black currant fruits, juicy acidity and a supporting role of dry tannins, it has minerality, touches of wood aging and a more serious aftertaste, ready for aging. Drink from 2017.
This begins with aromas of overripe plum, nail polish remover, fig, raisin, nutmeg, vanilla, resin and sweet oak. The dense, warm palate delivers chocolate, coffee, vanilla, plum and sweet oak alongside searing alcohol. It's already tired and evolved, and almost past its prime.
It opens with aromas of oak extract and burned tire rubber. The lean palate delivers toasted oak, vanilla and espresso alongside astringent oak tannins. It lacks fruit richness.
Rubbery, drawn aromas include smoky black fruits and red licorice. A firm, full mouthfeel rings in racy, tangy flavors of plum and berry that turn woody, spicy and dry on the finish.
Pale in color, this is a fruity rosé. It's packed with acidity that gives a tight, crisp feel as well as red cherry and red currant fruits. The acidity could benefit from a few months of calming, so wait until 2015.
Noticeably impacted with scents of leather and chicken-yard soils, this also shows some muted, brambly berry fruit. It's tart and juicy, with a flavor of pomegranate or acai berry, and best to be drunk sooner rather than later.
Solidly structured, this wine is medium- to full-bodied, moderately tannic and heading toward maturity in flavors. The medium garnet color goes to tawny at the rim. Aromas of cola, cherries and a touch of smoke are followed by rather lean fruit and clove flavors. Unfined, unfiltered and fermented with wild yeast.
A firmly tannic wine packed with both toast and blackberry fruits. It needs to soften to bring out the ripe fruitiness and jammy texture. Drink from 2015.
Herbaceous in flavor and firm in texture, it brings a freshness and tang with plenty of acidity to perk up fish, shellfish or chicken like a squeeze of fresh lemon.
Soft and round, this is a wine that has the warmth of the Alentejo coupled with a tangy, fresh slice of lemon. Blending Antão Vaz, Roupeiro and Perrum, it's a wine to drink now, or just age for a few months.
A light straw color, bright fruit aromas and a dot of sweetness paint the picture of an easy-drinking refresher. The bracing grapefruit and green apple aromas and flavors are attractive and pleasurable. It's medium-bodied, crisp in balance and slightly soft on the finish.
Intensely herbaceous, this is a crisp, green, herbal wine. It's fragrant, textured and conveys a bright acidity. Gooseberry, lime and apple flavors are very tight and concentrated.
This is a simple, bright fruity wine, with crisp apple and lemon fruits. It's fresh and ready to drink, with no need to age. A touch of minerality gives the necessary texture.
The Rutherford grapes that go into this wine travel down to Santa Barbara post-harvest, a journey that doesn't diminish the wine's sense of place. It represents its dusty provenance well amid a taste of sanguine tannins, soy sauce and ripe plum.
This is a young, fresh wine that's laced both with black currants and some dry tannins. It's so young and fruity that is all up front freshness. In fact it could do with a few months in bottle to give it more weight and round it out.
This is a hard, rather chewy young wine, tannic and tight, with some earthy flavors. The fruit is thin and plummy, with a vein of chocolate adding some extra interest.
While it's fresh and creamy, as any Vinho Verde should be, there's something extra to this smooth wine. The tangy acidity is balanced by melon and apple flavors to give the wine some richness. Drink now.
Herbal black-fruit aromas come with a lot of oak. This is full, chunky and meaty in feel, with green hints and blackberry flavors appearing before a blast of hickory smoke takes over. A high-toast, slightly bitter finish confirms the strong oaky character.
The lightest of the 2012 single-vineyard Pinot Noirs from Giant Steps, this is an almost delicate wine with silky tannins. Notes of smoke, earth and mushroom mark the nose, while hints of pine boughs impart a slightly medicinal edge to the cherry fruit. Drink now.
A scent of toasted oak fully wraps the nose, with touches of mint, fruitcake and blackberry underneath. Fine-grained, astringent tannins coat the tongue, and tangy acids gain steam toward the finish.
Puckering in mouthfuls of leathery, burly tannins, the color and power indicate Petit Verdot all right, so dark black is the wine and bursting in black licorice.
The most widely available bottling from Evening Land, this has a strong streak of earth and bark, with somewhat flat-tasting fruit flavors of black cherry cola. It finishes earthy and tannic, with a rough edge that may smooth out with additional bottle age.
Warm and ripe, this is a full-bodied rosé that has the weight and some of the tannins of a red wine. With its vivid pink color and sweet strawberry fruits, it's fruity and ready to drink.
A cherry pink, red-cherry flavored wine that has soft, clean fruit and acidity. It's pure fruitiness, easy to drink although with a heft of alcohol that contrasts with its light style.
Broad and sinuous in feel, it sports notes of wool, white apricot and papaya. Bright acidity gives the finish some spark.
Dust, pipe ash and pencil shavings give an Old World vibe to the nose. The palate offers very austere blackberry and soil flavors. Serve with pot roast or cigars.
This Macedonian white is bright yellow with green highlights. It has great aromas of pineapple juice and lemon custard. There are tropical fruit flavors in the midpalate, with a touch of creaminess on the finish.
Earthy, spicy, concentrated red-berry aromas give way to a full palate with spicy, oaky lead flavors and secondary red-fruit notes. Dry spice and a dusting of chocolate rise up on a simple finish.
Dark aromas suggest shoe polish and roasted black fruits. This feels rubbery and chunky, while the flavor profile includes quick pokes of cherry, plum and rubbery berry before a salty-tasting finish.
This is tight, crisp and herbaceous, dominated by Sauvignon Blanc. A mineral character gives a firm texture. It needs to age a few months, so drink from 2015.
Aromas of underbrush, mushroom and dried tobacco leaves lead the nose. The muddled palate delivers a clash of flavors including dill, sugary vanilla, bitter dark chocolate, sweet oak and espresso alongside green tannins.
Made from old vines, this complex and structured wine brings out the richness and ripe tannins of 2010. It's firm although the fruit concentration is what shows most strongly. It's an impressive, juicy, red-fruited wine that will age. Drink from 2017.
A pleasant aromatic mix of sweet buttercream with salted caramel join with pineapple and guava on this wine from the hills above Silicon Valley. It is nicely rounded on the palate, with pear, apple and more guava leading to a yeasty, acidic finish.
Leather, smashed berries and juniper reveal the age of this wine, further enhanced with a meaty mouthfeel, redolent with flavors of blueberry and purple fruits. Charred vanilla touches on the finish.
This sweet wine is nut brown in color, with aromas of dried prunes, caramelized pears and raisins. The palate is driven by sweet, dried fruit tones, balanced by bright acidity.
This Bordeaux-style blend of 25% Merlot, 25% Malbec, 25% Cabernet Franc, 13% Cabernet Sauvignon and 12% Petit Verdot greets the nose with purple fruits, cigar box and menthol. The soft palate is saturated with blackberry pie and peppery spice, presented with nicely chalky tannins.
Dominated by the Trincadeira and Aragonez grapes, this is a super-smooth, ripe wine from northeast Alentejo. Oak aging has rounded out the tannins, with generous red fruit driving the palate. Already completely integrated, this wine needs no further aging to be pleasantly enjoyed.
This 55% Cabernet Sauvignon, 45% Merlot wine is ripe and spicy. Solid fruit gives a juicy character along with a strong sense of structure. That allows room for plenty of acidity as well as fruit, but also demands aging to allow the mineral texture to soften. Along with owner Monique Bonnet's Château Suau, this vineyard was certified French organic with the 2012 vintage. Drink from 2018.
This structured and dense wine hails from the steep, sloping hills of the Lisboa region. While aged in Portuguese oak, which provides spice and dark tannins, the delicious black fruit core is not overpowered. Drink now–2016.
A detailed wine, with notes of wet slate, apricot and pear alongside high toned spices. It drinks off dry, with ripe stone-fruit flavors balanced by crisp acidity, leading to a lingering finish.
Baga, a grape unique to the Bairrada region, has a reputation for producing tough wines when young. This wine, however, shows the potential of aging the variety. Ripe and rich in character, this wine marries powerful blackberry tones with brooding, structured tannins. It could still age further, but the wine is very drinkable now.
With fruit predominantly from the Mill Station Vineyard in cool Green Valley, warm baking spices and coconut macaroon embody this wine aromatically. A full body of ripe apple and vibrant minerality peaks on the finish.
Nicely rounded pear aromas surround lemon-lime soda and honey in the center of the nose on this refreshing, cooler-climate Viognier, which offers very pleasant flavors of peach and citrus rind. It's light-bodied and very easy going down.
This well-built wine shows just the barest hint of barrel from fermentation and aging in neutral oak which seems to have rounded out the fruit and put some polish on the mouthfeel. Flavors are a tasty mix of lemon curd, honeysuckle, apple and peach, lightly spiced.
A zippy sense of freshness characterizes this wine that's otherwise soft and bright in red raspberry and plum fruit. Subtle and understated black pepper builds up on the finish and stays on the palate a long time, just the slightest suggestion of savory herb peeking through.
Distinct jalapeño aromas come alongside plum, boysenberry and star anise on this Cab from the team at historic Mount Eden. The green pepper fades to the background on the palate, where ripe plum and woody flavors meet with present but not overpowering tannins.
This is a rich, wood-aged wine, with smoky aromas and a strong spiciness. On the palate, the wine is ripe, full of black fruits and firm tannins. The blend of Touriga Nacional, Aragonez and Syrah has a fine perfumed character, with generous structure and delicious acidity. Drink after 2015.
Blueberry, sage and vanilla swirl into an admirable nose on this wine from a property far up the Santa Ynez River valley. There is distinct tar on the palate, like other wines from the property, with smashed black cherry fruit and tobacco herbaceousness present as well.
A project of Marc Mondavi, this wine is a blend of mostly Cabernet Sauvignon, rounded out by tiny percentages of Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc, Malbec and Merlot. Juicy in dark cherry and blackberry fruit, it is well composed, with a smoky undercurrent.
An unusual bottling of 100% Alicante Bouschet, this big, bold wine shows primary red and blackberry tones supported by soft tannins. Drink now through 2019.
Ripe and full, it offers great spice, yellow fruits and hints of tropical fruits. It has acidity and is dry, but it's delicious because of its rounded texture and generous body. Drink from 2015.
This is all spice and lychee flavors. It's a rounded, soft wine, on the sweet side although with a dry edge. It is not subtle, but it does hit all the Gewurztraminer buttons. Drink now.
Not very expressive, this shows subdued aromas that recall coconut, toasted oak, espresso and raw, red berry. The palate delivers red berry, licorice, mocha and vanilla alongside mild tannins. It's already surprisingly accessible. Drink 2015–2020.
Vibrant and savory, this fresh Nebbiolo doles out blue flower, crushed red cherry and black raspberry flavors. Accents of white pepper add depth while supple tannins and bright acidity create balance. It finishes on a succulent note.
Here is a hearty, full-bodied and dry red blend with a vivid black cherry character and spicy accents like black pepper and fennel. Firm and quite tannic, it will pair nicely with rich meat or cheese dishes that need a little bite in the wine to balance them.
Aromas of white peach and vanilla highlight this rich-textured, rather full-bodied white wine. It's made in a generous rather than crisp style, as if it were barrel fermented, and a buttery lushness defines it more than the fairly subtle fruit flavors. Very tasty overall.
This is a honeyed, sweet wine (a fact not indicated on the label). Spice is surrounded by ripe fruits, apricot and lychee, with added pepper. Some citrus acidity comes through at the end. Drink now.
Aromas include ripe plum, blackberry, vanilla, coffee and a hint of toasted oak. On the palate, notes of mocha and chocolate back up candied cherry and black raspberry. Firm tannins support the juicy flavors. Drink through 2021.
Straightforward and easy-drinking, this starts off with aromas of red rose, violet and red berry. The bright palate offers up wild cherry layered with notes of cinnamon and white pepper balanced with zesty acidity and chewy tannins.
Aromas include rose petal, grilled herb, forest floor, coffee and ripe berry. The palate is still rather closed but offers black cherry, vanilla and espresso alongside astringent tannins that give it an abrupt, drying finish.
Chosen from a selection of parcels, this dense and complex wine has layers of firm tannins that a give a dry, tough core. Underneath, the juicy, currant and berry fruits need to spring to life. Give this concentrated wine until 2017.
A fruity, crisp and herbaceous blend of Loin de l'oeil and Mauzac, this lively wine also shows some richness. Full of green and citrus fruits, it is finished with a light minerality and acidity. Drink from 2015.
A blend of Sangiovese, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, this opens with aromas of charred earth, game and a funky whiff of barnyard. The evolved palate offers dried black cherries, prune, coffee, clove, oak and licorice alongside fleeting but astringent tannins.
A blend of Syrah and Alicante, this opens with aromas of underbrush, toasted wood, espresso and a whiff of exotic spice. On the palate, the fruit is almost completely dried up, leaving prune and oak-driven sensations of coffee and licorice alongside drying tannins.
The winery behind America's first Petite Sirah continues pumping out quaffable bottles, including this show of black plums, pressed violets, black raspberries, white pepper, licorice candy and dill on the nose. The palate offers boysenberries and baked oregano, with a tapenade-like zing on the finish.
Standard red-berry, rubber and spice aromas are straightforward. This is active on the palate, with pinching tannins, snappy acidity and rawness. Tomato, dry oak, currant, red plum and dusty spice flavors finish with firm tannins and moderate heat and burn.
Complex floral and citric aromas lead this sophisticated white blend. Flavors of fresh tropical fruit, lemon and sea salt are balanced and appealing. A great everyday pour.
Apple, orange and pear aromas lead this distinctive white blend. On the palate, the wine has an appealing balance of chalkiness paired with exotic fruits. The finish offers complexity with a wash of lively acidity.
Ripe plum and berry aromas share the nose with heavy oak notes. This Tempranillo feels dry and tannic, while initially it tastes mostly like sawdust and oak. Deep digging and patience reveal briary berry and salty notes amid a lot of wood.
Briny, dusty, bready aromas set up a lively but foamy palate. Soda cracker, briny citrus and dried apricot flavors finish salty, pickled and dry, with hints of leftover citrus and green herbs.
Lightly medicinal, stewed aromas of cherry and plum register on the nose. This varietal Tempranillo, something you rarely see in Chile, is jammy on the palate, with red-fruit acidity keeping things bright. Roasted, lightly herbal flavors of plum and wild berry finish peppery and stalky.
The Kallisti offers exotic pineapple and tropical fruit aromas leading to a soft, layered palate of roasted nuts, citrus and vanilla. For fans of wines with a softer touch and some oak, this will be a hit. Pair with chicken, cheeses, richer dishes.
Forest fruit and pepper aromas lead into flavors of blackberry, cedar and spice. Elegant and exotic, this wine is balanced with good acidity and luscious fruit.
Concentrated scents of iodine, olive and herbal blackberry set up a loud palate supported by noticeable acidity. This tastes briny and a bit salty, with herbal black plum and blackberry flavors. A note of prune on the finish is offset by vivid acidity.
Raspberry, plum, leather and earth aromas lead to spice tones on the nose. This feels snappy and juicy, while herbs, red plum, red currant and mild oak flavors end with good weight, balance and oak-based spice notes.
Refreshingly quaffable, this off-dry Riesling juxtaposes juicy, sweet melon and peach flavors with fresh tangerine acidity. The finish is brisk, fringed with a delicious bristle of lime pith.
The deep, dark-red color and jammy fruit aromas signal a bold, friendly style that develops in the ripe blackberry, maple and strawberry flavors. It has a rich, soft texture and lingering finish that is almost sweet.
This has a very deep-red color with a reddish-purple rim, followed by very ripe, jammy aromas like boysenberry jam with spicy, smoky oak accents. Flavors are ripe, effusive and nearly sweet, as the wine goes for broke in terms of well-ripened grape flavors and generous helpings of sweet-spicy oak.
Made from Nerello Mascalese, this bright sparkler offers aromas of white and yellow flower and dried fruit. The palate doles out candied nectarine, toasted bread crust, ginger drop and a hint of walnut alongside tangy acidity.
Black cherry fruits sink even deeper into blackberry jam on this nose, which is leveled by vanilla and black licorice. It's chunky and sticky once sipped, with blueberry juice and chocolate-chip elements that are cut with anise-like herbs. Espresso shows on the finish, which is slightly sour and bitter.
Leather, fresh mushroom and stalky notes surround a core of black-fruit aromas. This feels hard and choppy, with bold acidity that isn't fully integrated. Plum and berry flavors end in a bright finish driven by the acidity.
This is a Tempranillo-based blend, with smaller amounts of Syrah and Malbec. Aged in 24% new oak, it's aromatic with hints of blood, meat, anise and steel. Cranberry and sour cherry fruit flavors are backed by chalky acids, and as it breathes a whiff of toast carries through the finish.
Quite a bit of Tempranillo is being planted in southern Oregon, and it shows considerable promise. The flavors here suggest cherry cobbler, with ripe fruit at the center. There are streaks of citrus and a touch of toast in the mix, with drying tannins.
Spicy plum aromas show a nuance of smoke on the nose. This has a linear, high-acid palate, with lightly oaked, toasty flavors of currant and plum.
This is a great example of a variety Americans are still learning to embrace. Plum and cherry aromas and flavors are approachable and soft, but the wine has good tannic structure which shows potential to age. This would be great with lasagna, steak or vegetarian cuisine.
Cedar, cassis, red currant and grilled herb aromas lead the nose in this blend of 85% Cabernet Franc, 10% Cabernet Sauvignon and 5% Merlot. The palate offers pomegranate, raw red berries, anise, sage and roasted coffee bean alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish.
A 50-50 blend of Ciliegiolo and Sangiovese, this opens with aromas of blackberry extract, espresso, tilled soil and a balsamic note. The palate offers dried black cherries accented with mint, menthol and licorice alongside drying, woody tannins. Drink before 2018 to capture what remains of the fruit.
This is an effusively fruity wine blended from three coastal counties, deep in color and jammy in aroma. Ripe and generous in flavor, it features black cherry and boysenberry, moderate tannins and a medium to full body.
Cedar, black currants, prune and tobacco aromas unfold in the glass. The warm, forward palate delivers dried black cherry, licorice, black pepper and tobacco alongside astringent tannins. While the tannins need to unwind, it's shy on fresh acidity and the fruit is starting to dry up—a result of the hot vintage—so drink sooner rather than later.
A strong earthiness greets the nose on this appellation blend. Turned loam and black dirt show first, followed by cocoa, cran-raspberry and vanilla bean. The earth shows on the palate too, with juniper, pepper, rhubarb and rose petals balanced by a orange-rind bitterness.
This single-vineyard designate is labeled simply Oregon, but is actually Dundee Hills. Somewhat dilute fruit flavors suggest pomegranate and tart strawberries. Despite 18 months in half new French oak, the wood does not overwhelm the fruit, and the wine actually improves overnight. Give it a good decanting for optimum drinking.
There are dank aromas of tree roots and earth on the nose of this wine, which also leans toward sour fruits. Flavors are clean and easy with spicy berry juice and plum skin tannins, showing good grip.
Red-fruit and citrus aromas create an astringent sensation on the nose. In the mouth, this is rather dilute and wiry in feel. Flavors of cranberry, pie cherry and orange peel finish herbal and lean.
Aromas recall overripe pear, tin, pineapple, grass and mineral. The lightly tropical flavors seem dilute backed by green apple-like acidity.
Oxidized aromas of vanilla and butterscotch are not terribly enticing or fresh. This chunky Verdejo is round and peachy, with oxidized, leesy flavors of melon and peach. It's flabby on the finish, with no structure.
Firm and structured, this is a lean and austere wine. It has solid tannins while the juicy acidity and red berry fruits are crisp with hints of green, underripe Cabernet.
This has a traditional garnet color with a light rim. It smells a bit earthy and herbal and tastes rather lean, like rhubarb and sour-cherry candy. It's light to medium bodied, a bit quirky but enjoyable.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Syrah and Cabernet Franc, this conveys tire rubber, smoke, green herbs and chocolate. The palate is off dry with blackberry and cherry flavors.
Demure on the nose with hints of dust, smoke and dried herbs, this is a dry, decidedly savory style of Sauvignon Blanc. It's crisp and spry on the palate with pleasant lemon-lime flavors, but finishes briskly.
This is a light, obviously wood-aged wine. Black currant fruitiness is right up front along with a spicy, toasty character. That wood will integrate shortly with the acidity to give a fruity, friendly wine.
With a shotgun on the label, this wine telegraphs adventure, and it is hugely burly in tannin and oak. Grapes consist of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 35% Cabernet Franc and 25% Merlot, a mix that forms blackberry and raspberry notes alongside a green streak of sage.
This 100% varietal wine comes from Coyote Canyon in the Horse Heaven Hills. Despite being aged in only half new French oak, barrel flavors take over with notes of char, coffee grounds and woodspice dominating the silky-smooth cranberry flavors. It brings some appeal but the variety gets lost.
Cherry, dry spice and leather aromas are detectable on an otherwise lean and dilute nose. Like the bouquet, the palate on this basic Malbec is thin. Flavors of generic berry fruits finish earthy and scratchy.
Aromas of forced oak and milk chocolate come across as pasty and unnatural. An abrasive, choppy mouthfeel and oaky flavors of creamy berry fruits are adequate at best. This feels scratchy on the finish.
Aromas of canned peaches and children's vitamins lack appeal. This feels fleshy and far from precise, with a mix of oxidized white-fruit and bitter flavors that leads to a mealy finish.
Earthy aromas need time to blow away once this is opened. After that, the wine gives lean fruit, a tight and mineral stalkiness and high acidity. Bitter extraction cuts through the wine.
Vague cherry and raspberry aromas come with notes of arugula and bell pepper. The palate is adequate but faltering, while flavors of raspberry show a note of jalapeño. The finish feels decent, with flavors that reflect all that came before it.
This lightly aromatic wine offers notes of herbs and kiwi. The flavors and acid seem dilute.
With very neutral aromas and flavors, this medium-bodied and reasonably crisp wine will be fine for everyday meals. Made from 60% Chardonnay and 40% Viognier, it is quiet and subdued. .
Wiry, narrow aromas of red fruits and bell pepper lead to a grabby, tight palate. Flavors of spicy plum and green herbs are slightly bitter, while the finish feels raw and tannic.
Pine and other atypical aromas for most red wines precede a clampy, tannic palate with funky plum, herb and mildly bitter flavors. A short, hard finish is choppy, with hard tannins and herbal tartness.
Dusty, candied aromas of raspberry and stone fruits aren't all that fresh or defined. This has a grabby, citric feel and briny red-fruit flavors that are echoed on a full, chunky finish.
Aromatically unusual, this suggests raspberry jam, purple flowers, orange peel and manure. Flavors are tangy and almost seem to have a light spritz.
Stalky aromas are dry and suggestive of animal hide. A level mouthfeel and elastic tannins allow for earthy, floral raspberry and plum flavors to do well despite a weedy element. Floral notes and herbal flavors mark the finish.
It's odd to find reductive elements on a white wine, but this—which comes from a property that's grown grapevines for a century or so—shows an tarry funk on the nose, with crisp pears and honeyed apples slowly emerging. The palate offers stonefruit syrup, honey and poached pears, and also gives off rubbery reductive elements.
This lightly volatile wine shows notes of cherry cola, dried fruit and woodspice. It doesn't drink entirely dry with the alcohol riding high on the medicine-cabinet flavors.
The wine is stalky with a green element that suggests underripe fruit. Black currant competes with burnt flavors that will soften as the wine ages. Drink from 2017.
This blend offers notes of bell pepper, dried tobacco and blue fruit. The plum, medicine cabinet and savory flavors are sweet with a sharp finish.
This brawny, heavy Monastrell opens with sketchy, murky aromas of stewed, herbal berry fruits, while the palate is oaky and resiny. Baked, burnt berry flavors mixed with heavy doses of hickory and clove finish bitter and outright woody.
Dense, roasted, earthy aromas start with tomato and fall off to raisiny and overripe. A chunky, flabbby, raisiny palate follows suit, while raisin and fruit-cake flavors maintain this wine's soft, overripe character.
This has plenty of tannins, but seems thin on the fruit. It gives an unbalanced wine that should have filled out by now. The texture is extracted with a hard edge.
With a high proportion of Mourvèdre in the blend, the wine is structured and finely perfumed. It has some firm tannins that are well integrated into the red-berries. While the wine is richly textured, it is also bursting with fruit at the end. Drink from 2018.
Aromas of pencil shavings, Band-Aid, prune and black plum are good but shy. This Cabernet feels jammy but also a touch rough and tannic. Blackberry, toast, charred wood, salt and savory plum flavors finish solid but not complex or unique.
A concentrated, medium-bodied wine, this is a fine example of Marlborough and the variety. Hints of passion fruit lend regional typicity, while the core of the wine is built around white grapefruit flavors that finish long and mouthwatering.
An appellation wine that's affordable and instantly likable, this has strong forest and mushroom elements, seeming at once rustic and sophisticated. Cranberry and orange tones add brightness to the savory character, framed by fine tannins.
For an entry level wine, this is impressive, offering hints of grapefruit pith, bergamot and smoke on the nose and following those up with some meaty-mushroomy notes on the palate. It's not typical, but boasts a silky texture and a unqieu combination of citrus and umami that lingers nicely on the finish.
Admirably concentrated and complex, this is a medium- to full-bodied wine. Passion fruit and snap pea notes combine with citrus zest on the nose, palate and long, mouthwatering finish.
This is zippy and refreshing, offering aromas of struck flint, pea shoots and grapefruit. For its abv, it's light on the palate, dancing with vibrant grass and citrus flavors and crisp acids.
Troon is going all in on Tannat, and this latest release—all estate-grown—marks a dive into natural winemaking. That means hand-picked, foot-stomped, native yeast and no additions during fermentation. Smooth, almost burnished to a fine gloss, this has dense fruit flavors of blueberry, boysenberry and blackberry. A dark streak of espresso, graphite and charcoal adds extra weight and length.
One of the deeper-colored rosés available, this memorable, medium-bodied wine bursts with fruity aromas and red wine-like flavors. It smells like cherries and apple skin and tastes fresh and brambly, as its generous texture fills the mouth with fruitiness that lasts through the finish.
Yeast, lemon balm and sage notes mingle on the nose. The palate adds saltiness and ample green apple and citrus flavors. The body is slender, its slight spritz further accentuating the fruit freshness. A refreshing summer wine with real verve.
The nose of this wine is somewhat reduced, signalling that it needs to breathe. The palate is zesty and comes with a wonderfully grippy but taut phenolic texture, lending structure to its slim body of green and yellow apple fruit with riper notions of yellow plum and peach. The finish is clean, dry and refreshing.
Subtle aromas vie for a place amidst bold swathes of toasted oak and leather in this concentrated, full-bodied wine. Plum and forest floor fill out the midpalate, striking a balance between ripe fruit and savory seasonings.
Fennel and yellow plum notes mark the nose, followed by flavors of peach, mirabelle plum and something akin to vegetable oil. This is richly textured for a dry Riesling, with a lingering, velvety feel on the long finish.
This medium-bodied, succulent wine blends three varieties into a complex and harmonious whole. Melon, stone fruit and grapefruit flavors are tinged with hints of peppery-gingery spice, then end long and mouthwatering.
Cherry cordial rises to the fore of this rich, thick and full-bodied red blended with 25% Syrah. Velvety in texture, it offers a wealth of meat, dust and chocolate flavors.
Full bodied and well balanced, this wine has a broad, mouthfilling texture and enough concentration to carry its rich fruit notes into the finish. Cedar and black currant aromas meet black cherry and blackberry flavors, while a layer of fine-grained tannins frames the whole picture.
Creamy oak aromas shout “vanilla” and “wood resin” in full voice. This is a rough wine with stampeding tannins. Toasty boysenberry flavors are more pounding than elegant, while this tastes of bitter chocolate on an aggressive finish. Give this five years and it may show better but now it's massive and unsettled.
This plump, medium-bodied Chardonnay shows yellow fruit notes of mirabelle plum, peach and pineapple, all wrapped in a cocoon of woodsmoke. Drink now–2020.
A consistent standard-bearer for the variety as expressed in Marlborough, the 2016 Private Bin boasts ample red currant and pink grapefruit aromas and flavors, perked up by a touch of leafiness. It's medium-bodied and perhaps a bit rounder and softer in the mouth than some, but finishes dry and stony.
Rich and robust with berry and currant fruit, this wine is rounded and full-bodied, with tannic weight and spicy layers of toasted oak.
Pastry shop aromas and abundant vanilla and nutmeg flavors make this wine easy to like. It's nicely dry and medium-bodied despite those initial sweet impressions, with a moderate dose of apple and lemon fruit for support.
This 100% varietal wine was aged entirely in French oak and given plenty of time in bottle. It opens with a burst of coconut flavor and light cedar and currant accents, feeling structured yet light on the palate and juicier on the finish.
Ripe dense aromas of blackberry and cassis border on prune and raisin but pull back. A compact saturated palate is held together by hard, pounding tannins, while grapy black-fruit flavors show a chocolaty note of fudge. A condensed tannic finish is heavy and feels a bit overextracted.
This blend of Syrah, Cabernet Franc and Cabernet Sauvignon offers up decadent juicy flavors of sun-kissed red cherries and watermelon. While dry in style, there's a slightly caramelized ripeness on the midpalate that balances out pertly against brisk grapefruit acidity. Enjoy now for its forward fruity exuberance.
While there was some bottle variation between two samples, this elegant Sauvignon Blanc highlights the variety's more mineral, smoky expressions. Despite six years of cellar aging, there's still plenty of crisp cutting lemon and green-apple flavors augmented by spine-tingling acidity and a long chalky finish.
This wine comes from a small appellation that specializes in botrytized wines. This mature wine with its honeyed touch (as well as lemon and ripe botrytis) is luscious and opulent. It has a smooth generous and full texture. There is a bitter-orange-marmalade flavor that gives a crisper edge at the end. This beautiful wine is ready to drink.
This herbal wine comes in a beautifully designed bottle that mixes clear and blue glass. It is light and fruity—a lively mix of red fruits and citrus with a definite texture. This new wine from the Minuty estate is made to go with food.
Owned by the Abeille family of Château Mont-Redon in Châteauneuf-du-Pape, this wine is delicious. Crisp and clean with great red currant and citrus fruitiness, it is finely judged with acidity and a light texture balancing the fruit. Drink now.
Rich and concentrated, this big, brawny bruiser tastes as advertised: layered with baked strawberry and cherry pie flavor and ripeness. Earthy soy, anise and cinnamon keep those elements in check, as does the wine's velvety texture.
Rich texture combines with subtle flavors in this full-bodied, complex wine. It opens with mineral and white pepper aromas, broadens into Anjou pear, vanilla and toasted almonds flavors, and finishes with creamy concentration.
Strong blueberry and black-cherry aromas mesh with cedar spice and tobacco ash on this rather elegant nose. A balsamic blueberry reduction flavor shows on the palate, where fine-grained tannins also present smashed vanilla flavors.
Made in an approachable style, light-bodied and yet showing an attractive level of richness, there's melon, oak and honey at this wine's core, accented by pretty floral notes of apple blossom and pie.
Can't-miss aromas of petrol, wet stones and lime will have you thinking this is Riesling, but the blend is two-thirds Garnacha Blanca and the rest Macabeo. Tight and well cut on the palate, this tastes of melon, lime and peach pit. A quick, lean finish works.
The wine comes from a large 300 acre vineyard in the eastern Costa Serena region. Dominated by Niellucciu (aka Sangiovese), it brings out all the acidity of the grape, restrained by ripe raspberry and apple fruitiness. It is a light, bright and crisp wine.
This opens with delicate aromas that recall pear, yellow stone fruit and a whiff of almond. The juicy palate presents yellow peach, citrus and a hint of hazelnut alongside fresh acidity.
Round and juicy, this offers enticing scents of white flower, mature apple, citrus and pear that carry over to the palate along with honeydew melon and a hint of aromatic herb. Fresh acidity balances the ripe fruit flavors.
Light red cherry, dried sage, black tea and thyme show on the nose of this bottling from the iconic facility in the heart of its namesake valley. There is a lot of action on the palate, where tart cherry and plum skin flavors meet with dried mint and earthy shrub elements.
A tad lighter in color, this smartly priced screwtop shows juicy red cherries and bramble fruit with wet gravel and red rose petals on the nose. The rich red cherries on the palate are cut by tart cranberries, pencil lead, peppercorns and rosemary.
Co-fermented with a small amount of Viognier, this wine opens in a flurry of sunflower before unleashing bold, firm flavors and layers of dense tannin and concentrated blackberry and cherry. The tannin continues to expand on the finish.
Citrus and red-fruit aromas make for an attractive, perfumed wine. On the palate, a fresh character comes from the red currant and raspberry fruits. It is light and bright with a tight, mineral aftertaste.
More assertive and full-bodied than many versions, this wine smells like snap peas and spring flowers, but gets richer on the palate as peach flavors come out and mingle nicely in the unusually rich texture.
Softened by 20% Merlot, and aged in a healthy majority of new French oak, this is a smoky, smooth and tannic wine with savory characteristics of pencil and cedar that outweigh the fruitier aspects of mountain blackberry.
A burly, brawny vineyard-designate, this wine powerfully combines black pepper and leather with spicy blackberry and cherry. A lacing of dark chocolate provides further decadence around a steely structure.
Fresh flavors of herb, gooseberry, lime and pear comingle. This is the first release of a new sister brand to Elk Cove. All Willamette Valley fruit, including some estate grown grapes, it's done in a clean and refreshing style. This is a perfect mid-week, food friendly white wine.
Made with 70% Grecanico, 15% Grillo and 15% Sauvignon Blanc, this offers enticing scents of fragrant yellow flower, honeydew melon and citrus. The creamy, enveloping palate offers grapefruit, peach, tropical fruit and note of chopped Mediterranean herb.
Delicate scents of lemon blossom, spring wild flower and citrus waft out of the glass. The vibrant, easygoing palate doles out nectarine, aromatic herb, white peach and a mineral note alongside bright acidity.
This is a round and fruity wine, offering pretty flavors of cherry and hints of darker berries. There are notes of earth and anise also, and just a twinge of plastic lingering in the aftertaste.
This is a young, perfumed wine with attractive red fruits. While the wood is showing at the moment, that will fade as the wine develops, giving a fresh, raspberry-dominated wine. Drink from 2018.
A 50-50 blend of Nero d'Avola and Nerello Mascalese, this boasts fruity and spicy aromas of wild berry, fennel and Mediterranean herb. The fresh, juicy palate offers crushed strawberry, wild cherry and a note of white pepper. A hint of tangerine and a saline note close the crisp finish.
Bright while also jammy, this is a ripe wine dominated by rich red fruit. The core of tannins doesn't disturb the strawberry flavors and the crisp acidity. The wine is already developing well. Drink from 2019.
The slightest hint of baking spice hovers over fresh, tart but ripe apple notes. Something juicy and textured at the core makes you want to drink more.
Fresh and baked apple counter each other attractively. The palate is fresh and clean, with an earthy, textured edge. Brisk lemon notes provide freshness.
Clean, ripe apple notes glide across nose and palate in a fruity, refreshing, balanced and easy-drinking white. Drink soon while aromas are at their peak.
Faint pear notes on the nose lead to a savory, earthy but crisp palate. The finish is very clean, even cleansing. This will shine with food.
Beeswax, mature orchard fruit and yellow flower aromas emerge from the glass. The refreshing palate offers lemon drop, peach and pear alongside tangy acidity. A grapefruit note closes the finish.
Aromas of red berry and star anise lead the nose. The bright, savory palate delivers wild cherry, ripe strawberry, tangerine zest and grilled herb while a saline note fills in the crisp finish.
Dark black in color, this bold wine is thick and rich in tannin and oak, with traces of dried herb, red currant and cedar, making it seem more like Cabernet. The coffee-laden finish provides further focus.
Rubbery berry, tea, cool mint, herb and savory aromas amount to something a bit funky. This Syrah feels chewy and tannic. Herbal, savory, soupy flavors finish with an infusion of tea-like influences on closing plum and berry fruit notes.
Smoke seeps throughout this deeply earthen Auslese, lending a savory, mineral tone to the bright lemon and tangerine flavors. The palate is honeyed and concludes deftly with a tea-leaf astringency that lingers on the finish.
Big and flashy, this high-elevation wine is for oak lovers. A heavily oaked aroma brings black pepper, cardamom and brown sugar to this dark-colored and richly textured wine. The flavors are almost as spicy, but some candied cherry joins in on the finish.
Named for a small volcanic outcrop on the Niven family's sprawling property, this bottling from winemaker Christian Roguenant shows hearty black cherry, vanilla and star anise spice on the nose. The palate is extremely floral, with lavender, violet and elderflower scents, along with plum skin and crushed-slate flavors.
Lifted hints of chamomile and apple peel rise straight from the glass. The palate has the same streamlined citrus focus and just homes in on that sleek dry apple freshness that seem to be a dynamic force at the center of this wine. The flavors are concentrated and totally dominated by utter lemon freshness, tart and vivid to the last. Lovely now but with further potential. Drink now through 2030.
The second wine of Angélus is almost as structured as the first wine. It has serious tannins and dark acidity. At the same time, the fruit is rich with black-currant flavors. It is solid with plenty of potential. Drink this very fine wine from 2023.
Subtle hints of tart apples appear first, then there is the merest touch of quince, even a touch of lemon balm. The palate pans out aromatically, always in that apple and quince spectrum, and has a brightening crisp edge of freshness and absolute concentration and dryness. With more air, the aromatic lemon balm note adds its special perfume to this wine. This is invigorating and enlivening.
A sensational bottle at this price, it's ripe and textural, with a plush mix of strawberry and cherry fruit. The flavors evolve throughout a lengthy finish, adding layers of chocolate, malt and caramel, all in beautiful proportion.
Honey, white peach and vanilla cream show on the nose of this bottling from winemaker Sabrine Rodem, with a kick of hazelnut as well. The palate is all about restrained richness, its buttery lemon curd and cinnamon flavors cut by bright acidity and a lemon-peel tang.
Enticing pressed rose, iris, woodland berry, Mediterranean brush and game aromas emerge from this succulent red. The palate is savory, doling out ripe wild cherry, black raspberry, grilled herb, white pepper flavors with a hint of sea salt. Firm but refined tannins and tangy acidity provide polished support. Drink 2020–2028.
Rounded and rich, this single-vineyard wine is concentrated without losing a touch of its beautiful fruit. It has a fine balance between fruit and acidity as well as a tense line of minerality and tight texture. Drink this impressive wine from 2024.
Tasted together with the 2013, this is everything its younger brother is, but ever-so-slightly less intense. Complex notes of baking spices, pepper, bacon fat, raspberries and blueberries glide across the palate, picking up a slightly meaty note on the long, fruit-driven finish. Drink now–2030.
This second wine of Calon Ségur is beautifully proportioned. It is fruity with rich tannins. At the same time, the crisp fruit of the vintage gives a lift to the deep concentration. Let the wine develop over several years. Drink from 2024.
Ripe and fruity, the wine is a great success. It has juicy berry fruits that are underpinned by the firm tannins and mineral structure. It is full while also crisp: a wine that is deliciously perfumed. Drink from 2024.
Produced from biodynamically grown grapes, this is a fine, smooth and rich wine. Great tannins are cushioned within the ripe blackberry fruits and generous texture. It is already a delicious wine, although certain to age as well. The estate is close to Château Figeac. Drink from 2022.
Very earthy notes precede a subdued nose of citrus zest. These tart but expressive notes open up a little more on the palate where they are joined by a rounded, if crunchy structure. There is ample freshness here but also an earthy and (for now) citrus-fruited generosity. The finish reverts to stony, earthy cleanness. This is intriguing and needs time to unfold its fruit and unusual texture. Drink 2020–2030
Fresh and linear, this opens with fragrant purple flower, red berry and new leather scents. The firm, youthfully austere palate is loaded with finesse, offering crunchy red cherry, fresh strawberry and licorice notes with taut, fine-grained tannins and vibrant acidity. Give it time to unwind and fully develop. Drink 2019–2028.
As Willamette Valley vintners continually improve and redefine Oregon Chardonnay, a distinctive profile is emerging. This vivid and taut mineral-driven wine could be the poster child. The citrus, apples and pears bring a light touch of baking spices, extended length and surefire ageability. Plus, it's a fine value for a wine of such quality.
The nose is like a veil of Golden Delicious apple scent. The palate follows with soft apple freshness that is pervaded by a deeper lemony streak. But it is apple charm that stays on the surface. There are hints of wax and stone too. The dry intense palate is concentrated and clean. Apple and lemon notes linger and leave the palate utterly clean.
There is not just a notion of ripeness but almost of overripeness of pear fruit on the nose, accompanied by hints of honeysuckle. There also are hints of sandalwood and gentle vanilla. The palate is cushioned with mellow residual sweetness, making the rich flavors even more rich and generous. A vein of citrus freshness counters this, but this is in the generous, medium-sweet spectrum, oozing fruit and generosity. The finish, nonetheless, is precise and fresh. A great example of mature Pinot Gris.
A very pure but subtle note of Golden Delicious apple hits the nose. The palate rounds out this ripe but tart flavor but also brightens it with lovely apple crispness and freshness. The body is dry and totally fresh with wonderful concentration, aromatic length and purity. This simply leaves you wanting more.
Earthy aromas suggesting leather, forest floor, tilled soil and dark spice take the lead in this Brunello, punctuated by a balsamic note. Firm and full-bodied, it delivers succulent Marasca cherry, star anise, mint and pipe tobacco, framed by tightly wound but refined tannins. Drink 2020–2032.
Violet, perfumed berry, new leather, cinnamon and mint aromas follow through to the elegant palate, lifting its juicy core of plum and ripe Morello cherry flavors. A licorice note signals the close while firm, fine-grained and polished tannins provide support. Drink 2018–2027.
Only released in top vintages, this is Jim Barry's luxury cuvée of Cabenet Sauvignon. It does see plenty of oak, so it shows impressive notes of baking spices, vanilla and brown sugar, but it backs those with ample dark fruit. It's elegant despite its size, with a fine-grained tannins lingering on the finish. Drink now–2025, and possibly beyond.
Owned by Ken and Karen Wright, Savoya is planted on ancient marine sedimentary soil. Bold cherry fruit carries a streak of salinity, that tastes like a shake of salt and pepper around tart pomegranate fruit. It's tangy and lightly herbal, with classic structure and a clear path to aging over a decade or longer.
Made from 100% Merlot grapes, this boasts ripe red berry, cassis, espresso, vanilla and chopped mint aromas. The densely concentrated palate doles out ripe cassis, licorice, tobacco and sage flavors, blanketed in velvety tannins. Drink through 2022.
From a vineyard site long tapped by both this producer and others, this beautifully crafted white is rich in a swirl of apple pie, fig and anise aromas and offers a voluptuous texture and mouthfeel. That concentration is complemented by crisp acidity, allowing for both balance and complexity.
From Mt. Eden and Wente clones grown at 1,700 feet, this under-$30 bottling shows key lime and pomelo pith freshness on the nose, backed by chalk, crushed sea shell and tangerine blossom aromas. There is a fine-grained texture to the tannins on the palate, where bright citrus fruit meets with marcona almond touches. It's simultaneously refreshing and savory.
Though not designated as such, this is a reserve-level effort, as noted by the special label (with Owen Roe in large, old-fashioned cursive lettering) and its overall concentration. Dense black fruits are strongly accented with flavors of espresso and baking spices. It's a powerful wine that is already drinking well, and should continue to do so into the late 2020s.
Firm and refined, this fragrant red offers intriguing new leather, black-skinned fruit, truffle, dark spice and balsamic notes. The palate is elegant and structured, evoking succulent red cherry, cranberry, star anise, and chopped mint with a vein of of bright acidity and taut, polished tannins. Youthfully austere, it has impressive aging potential. Drink 2022–2037.
This is an exceptionally concentrated, smooth and delicious wine. It has ripe blueberry, blackberry and raspberry flavors, and its texture strikes the right balance between supple and tannic. A Coro Mendocino blend, it's made from a base of Zinfandel, with Petite Sirah, Syrah and a dash of Grenache. Delicious now, it also has the stuffing to age. Best from 2018.
Damask rose and honeysuckle on the nose almost have a cotton-candy tang to them. The palate is medium sweet and adds peach compote to the floral notes and a dollop of plump luscious sweetness. There is huge concentration and big aromatic intensity on the midpalate with a lovely bitter edge that lasts long. There is a medium-sweet finish.
This release deserves some sort of award for consistency, year in and year out. The 2011 is light to medium in body and long, zesty and vibrant on the finish. Aromas and flavors of bergamot, honey (although the wine is completely dry) and toast are classic aged Eden Valley Riesling. Drink now–2030.
This rounded, smooth wine will be delicious to drink. It is full of crisp white fruits, laced with lemon acidity while having a full, ripe character. From clay and chalk soil, it is forward, fruity and ready to drink now.
Blended from the Laguna, Del Rio and Two Rock vineyards, this tangy white is balanced and bright in preserved lemon, honey, ginger and caramel. The back beat conveys citrus and mellowed oak.
This wine is steely, with tight acidity and grapefruit and lime flavors. It is bright and lively, with a tense edge that needs to soften over the next few months. Drink from the end of 2016.
This opens with aromas that recall wood shop, espresso, underbrush and mature black-skinned fruit. The firmly structured palate offers toasted oak, dried black cherry, roasted coffee bean and licorice alongside drying, close-grained tannins that leave an astringent finish.
Baked black plums and mission figs mix with lavender and cracked pepper on the nose of this cool-climate bottling. The palate shows tart boysenberry flavors along with black peppercorns and condensed violets.
The nose doesn't give much away while the tight palate offers mature black cherry, mint and a hint of baking spice. Fresh and tannic but one-dimensional, it lacks charm.
Pale apricot in the glass, this rosé made of Cinsault, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon has a bouquet of peach and clover. There is a bit of heft on the palate that belies its light color, with flavors of ripe peach, apple, and lemon curd. The finish is marked by touches of thyme and oregano.
Pinot Noir from Canada can often be quite delicate, but this is a full-bodied, even muscular effort. Toasty and tasty, it puts a pleasant roasted character upon ripe strawberry and cherry fruit. Tannins are substantial, along with some barrel flavors from nine months in French oak.
This wine is half Cabernet Sauvignon, with the balance Merlot (20%), Cabernet Franc (18%) and a healthy dollop of Petit Verdot. Aromas of green herbs, fresh flowers, soil and barrel spice lead to dark cherry flavors backed by grainy tannins.
Blackberry, cigar box, vanilla bean and black-licorice aromas are out front, with savory herbs in the background, becoming more prominent over time. The dark-fruit flavors are elegant in style and linger on the smoky finish.
This Icewine is a blend of Muscat, Ottonel and Traminer. It presents the nose with caramelized pineapple, lemon curd and lemon meringue pie. It is fairly sweet on the palate with a mixture of lemon grass, sweet lime rind and lemon curd.
Tire rubber aromas provide some distraction from the notes of black pepper, citrus and fresh herbs. The elegant dark fruit, pepper and savory flavors are unmistakably varietal. There are many good things to explore.
Black-cherry syrup and gravel touch the nose of this bottling from an estate in northern Paso owned by television producers. The palate shows clove and allspice as well as intriguing olallieberry and dark strawberry fruit, laid across a fairly tannic, asphalt-driven structure.
Pressed violet, underbrush, overripe black-skinned fruit and a hint of scorched earth come together on this. The warm, forward palate has a rather rustic charm, delivering mature plum, crushed black cherry, baking spice, leather and a bitter, earthy note accompanied by round, evolved tannins.
A little air unlocks aromas of underbrush, scorched earth, blue flower, toasted oak and mature berry. On the firm palate, notes of espresso and licorice add some depth to the core of dried black cherry while grippy, close-grained tannins provide support.
Still young, this is a dark wine with blueberry fruit and firm tannins both on display. It has concentration and the potential for juiciness and richness that will develop. A structured wine, it needs more time. Drink from 2018.
This wine has a crispness and upfront brightness that speaks to low oak. Lemony with a bite of green apple, it offers a backdrop of marshmallow on the finish.
Though billed as a Super Tuscan, this is an odd but refreshing wine for those seeking something different. The Cab-Sangio blend offers strong black pepper, brambleberry, pink peppercorns and a touch of pasilla chile on the underripe nose. The palate is light in body but full of bright cranberry fruit and intriguing herbals, led by green peppercorns.
This is 48% Cabernet Sauvignon and 52% Syrah, which seems to be the dominant grape in terms of flavor and style. Scents and flavors of char, licorice and espresso come up quickly, with black fruit showing a peppery edge. The finish seems attenuated, even with ample aeration.
Subdued aromas suggesting stewed plum, mature berry, dried herb and scorched earth lead the nose. The straightforward, rather evolved palate offers dried cherry, cranberry, leather, clove and a green note of powdered sage alongside tightly wound tannins that clench the finish.
Leafy underbrush, mature blackberry, scorched earth and clove aromas lead the way. The straightforward, accessible palate offers fleshy black cherry, star anise and a hint of game alongside ripe tannins. While it lacks complexity, it has a juicy, immediate appeal. Drink through 2019.
Despite its varietal label, this drinks more like a Bordeaux-style blend with the Cabernet Sauvignon (11%) and Cabernet Franc (9%) showing themselves prominently. Coffee, flower, dried herb and red- and black-fruit aromas are followed by elegant, lightly creamy fruit flavors that carry through the finish.
Aromas of green herbs, flowers and soil lead to rich purple-fruit flavors and chalky tannins. It doesn't quite come together but provides intrigue.
This wine was aged for 30 months in new French oak before subsequently seeing time in bottle. It offers aromas and flavors of herbs, woodspice and red and black fruit, with firm tannins providing the frame.
A full-bodied, ripe wine, this is going to develop well, with balanced acidity and ripe, perfumed apple and pear flavors. The final tang of citrus gives a great lift. A warm wine, it's already delicious and will be even better from 2017.
Typical of the wines from Quincy, this is herbal and crisp, packed with green fruits that burst out of the glass. Along with its lemon-zest texture, it has a strong mineral element that contrasts with all this fruitiness. Drink now and until 2019.
This wine is rich, rounded and smooth. It has enough citrus flavor to give a lift while also having ripe, apricot and red-apple tastes. Fresh at the end, it's also a wine to age, so drink from 2018.
Sweet-tart raspberry and cranberry aromas are lifted and spry on this fresh, aromatic Pinot Noir. The palate is markedly riper and richer, boasting dark cherry and berry flavors and heady spice tones that linger. Tannins are a bit craggy and bitter but finely grained.
Supple white-fleshed fruits, from pear to cherimoya, touch the nose, as do aromas of lemon rind, struck match and dried apple on this blend of 90% Sauvignon Blanc and 10% Viognier. A gravelly, pencil lead minerality on the palate is boosted by sliced lemon wedges, cut grass and gooseberry notes.
Named after a term for beautiful gesture, this wine is mostly Cabernet Sauvignon with small amounts the other primary Bordeaux varieties blended in. Aromas of dark cherry, black tea, pencil lead and vanilla are followed by well-constructed smoke and dark fruit flavors with grainy, compact tannins that need some time to stretch their legs.
Much riper and toastier than their 2011 Signature Pinot, this brings pretty flavors of raspberry and Bing cherry into play, with a dash of root beer as well. Engaging and accessible, it motors into a tart, tangy finish.
Call this Pinot useful, rather than complex or ageable. It's nicely dry, acidic and silky in the mouth, with jammy raspberry, cherry and persimmon flavors. Food pairings range from steak to tuna tartare or a bacon burger.
With apricot, orange, peach, lemon and lime flavors, this is one of the richer Sauvignon Blancs out there. But it's totally dry, with brisk acidity and a clean, elegant finish.
Carneros is one of the best places in California for Pinot Gris/Grigio. This 2013 shows the brisk acidity of the appellation, and also the excellence of the 2013 vintage. It's pure and rich in apricots, tangerines, white peaches and papayas, and yet the finish is dry and clean. There's no oak at all, nor is any needed.
Made partly with late-harvested grapes and aged in large casks, this ripe wine leads with aromas of fragrant white flowers, lychee, pear and a delicate note of vanilla. The round palate offers juicy tropical fruit, golden apple and lemon pastry with a flinty, mineral finish.
A soft, ripe apple-flavored Champagne, it is fresh and crisp. With its gentle mousse and fruitiness, it is ready to drink as a youthful wine, and not likely to benefit from bottle age.
This pretty wine opens with floral and apple aromas that carry over to the glass along with juicy pear and a hint of white peach. The creamy palate is uplifted by vibrant acidity that makes it an ideal wine for lightly seasoned fish dishes or grilled vegetables.
A blend of 60% Pinot Bianco, 30% Chardonnay and 10% Sauvignon, this reveals a fragrance of white flowers and tree fruit. The juicy palate delivers white peach, yellow apple and a mineral note alongside fresh acidity.
This rich, intense wine has a strong tannic element that is balanced with the red and black berry fruits. There's a burst of acidity, but the main thrust of this wine is structure and concentration.
This is a well made, fruit and tannin wine. With delicious black currant fruits, juicy acidity and a supporting role of dry tannins, it has minerality, touches of wood aging and a more serious aftertaste, ready for aging. Drink from 2017.
While this is currently a tough proposition, the inherent fruitiness of this structured wine augurs well for its future. With berry fruits under the dark tannins and some slight bitterness from wood aging, it needs time. Drink from 2017.
With a buttery, creamy texture, this Chardonnay has oak-inspired flavors of Meyer lemons, sweet limes, honey, vanilla bean and buttered toast. The acidity is key, providing a central zest to the richness.
This concentrated Soave shows restraint and elegance. It offers sensations of pressed yellow flowers, yellow peach, citrus, pear, almond and mineral that are supported by crisp acidity. It's unusual to find this much personality at this price point.
A solid, ripe and tannic wine that is full of firm fruits, ripe berries and a strongly mineral character. It has some concentration and certainly dense tannins while also showing a fresher, licorice and black currant side. Drink now, but best wait until 2015.
All ripe fruit and cushioned tannins, this is a dense, very fruity wine. It is a powerhouse of richness and solid structure. Concentrated, with a touch of bitterness, it could age until 2016, but is drinkable with its fruitiness now.
An attractive, fruity wine, it is already in balance. The fruit comes out strongly with its red berry and black cherry flavors with just a herbal, fresher hint. It's not for aging, but will improve, so drink from 2015.
This wood-aged wine is very soft and round. It's still quite reticent in its flavors, showing only light acidity and yellow fruit flavors. It needs time to bring out its rich fruits and wood flavors. Drink from 2016.
This ripe, creamy, fruity wine has touches of vanilla balanced by tight, citrus acidity. This is Laroche's largest production wine, a classic, fresh and just-steely Chablis. Start drinking in 2014.
Les Narvaux is on the hill behind Meursault. The wine has intense acidity and great freshness. Wood flavors are there, but not dominant, giving a bright wine, very juicy and ready to drink.
This is a perfumed wine, almost overwhelming in its intensity. The palate is equally aromatic, rich in texture and very juicy. The wine, with its red berry fruits and tight acidity, is still young, waiting to show its ripeness and soft tannins. Drink from 2015.
Made with Sangiovese, this opens with earthy aromas of tilled soil, black berries and spice. The soft palate delivers fleshy black cherry and juicy raspberry lightly accented with black pepper notes along with round tannins. It's made to drink young so enjoy soon.
This is a monster Zin even by Sbragia standards. The wine feels hotter and more glyceriney than its official alcohol. It's also superripe in raisins and prunes, although the finish is totally dry. It defines a lusty, rustic style of California Zinfandel.
This is a rich and smooth wine, creamy and full of baked apple and ripe pear flavors. Rounded with warm flavors, it carries just the right amount of citrus acidity and a touch of toast. Drink now until 2018.
A smooth and polished wine, it has mint and wood flavors as well as stylish red fruits. The tannins give a firm structure on which to hang the juicy fruitiness and acidity. It is developing well but needs a few more years. Drink from 2016.
This rich wine has peach and quince flavors along with spice and hints of toast. It's full in the mouth, very fruity and fresh, a warm wine that does manage to keep a fresh burst of lemon acidity at the end. Drink now, but better at the end of 2014.
Heady floral aromas of white spring flowers come with accents of exotic fruit and cut grass. The juicy fruit palate offers pineapple, mango and papaya. Crisp acidity leaves a clean finish.
There's a crispness and freshness to this slightly off-dry Riesling, reminiscent of lemons and crunchy white peaches. Stark lime acidity showers the palate, leading a long, steely finish. It's an austere style of wine, but balanced, with expansive mouthfeel and body.
Dark char and blackberry notes are pleasantly smoky in this deeply penetrating Spätburgunder. Big, bold and ripe, the palate is luscious and expansive, with black cherry and cassis flavors. Zippy cranberry acidity adds levity to the finish.
A structured Pinot Grigio with character, it opens with aromas of Spanish broom, white peach and a graphite note. The juicy fruit palate delivers green apple, pear and creamy peach with a note of Alpine herbs, along with bright acidity.
Good price for a Santa Rita Hills Pinot this good. It's dry and crisp, with a delicate mouthfeel carrying intense waves of raspberries, cherries, red licorice, pomegranates and cola. Drink now.
Floral berry and plum aromas are touched up by notes of thyme and cardamom. Fresh grippy acidity keeps this lively, while flavors of berry and plum are spicy and suggestive of tomato sauce. Saucy, herbal flavors rise up on a high-acid finish.
Crisp apple and pears are streaked with earthy tones of saffron and bramble in this brisk invigorating Spätlese. It's concentrated and fruity on the palate with a clingy honeyed touch that extends the finish.
Aromas of black raspberry, violet, baking spice and a whiff of game lead the nose. The chewy palate offers juicy sour cherry, ground pepper and licorice alongside racy acidity and round tannins. It's meant to be drunk young so enjoy soon.
Aromas of mature plum, espresso, toast and Asian spice lead the nose while the dense palate delivers dried black cherry, red currant, licorice and ground pepper. Tangy acidity and close-grained tannins give it a mouth-puckering finish.
Wood fermentation still allows the Arinto grape to retain its natural crispness. At the same time, it gives it a perfumed spicy character that enhances the juiciness of the wine and brings out the zesty texture. It's fruity, fresh and ready to drink.
This supple medium-bodied Pinot Noir is ready to drink. Predominantly earthy notes of leather and dried spices are harmonious and complex without being overly demanding.
This ripe, rounded and fruity wine hails from vineyards at the western end of the Marne Valley. Its yellow fruit and soft apple flavors are only lightly marked by minerality. The acidity is fragrant, refreshing and with just the right crispness to balance all this soft fruit.
Aromas of scorched earth, mature black-skinned fruit, blue flower, toast and Oriental spice lead the way on this full-bodied wine. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, espresso, licorice and ground pepper set against a backdrop of fine-grained tannins.
Hints of yuzu citrus and smoke entice on the nose of this puckery tangerine-inflected Riesling. Off-dry in style, it's enriched by luscious streaks of honey and sweet grapefruit on the midpalate. Finishes moderately long on a kiss of blossoms.
Aromas of baked plum, scorched earth, mint and menthol come together in the glass. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, ground pepper and a hint of Oriental spice accompanied by close-grained tannins. A licorice note closes the finish.
This medium-bodied red opens with aromas of mature blackcurrant, toasted oak, exotic spice, coconut and menthol. The firm palate doles out dried black cherry, blackberry jam, anise and chopped herb alongside grippy, close-grained tannins. It ends on a note of roasted coffee bean.
From a particular block with limestone soils, this is indeed a light, steely and minerally white wine, given nine months in French oak, only 17% of it new. It takes on that oak with subtle concentration, offering a touch of baked pineapple, peach and vanilla, ending in a bittersweet bite of Meyer lemon.
Pretty, pale and poised, this offers light pear flavors with a touch of cinnamon. Snappy acidity and a clean, fresh finish all contribute.
Montée de Tonnerre, just to the south of the Grand Cru slope, gives rich wines like this with density and ripeness. From the warm vintage of 2013, this is a ripe, apple- and pear-flavored wine that has just the hint of a tighter, mineral texture. It can be drunk now.
An effusive wine, this shows potent, almost sweet aromas and opulent flavors with hints of mint and rosemary. It has a medium body, fine tannins that add nicely to the texture and a lingering finish.
A whiff of fresh brioche against a backdrop of sunny grapefruit and plum flavors makes this forward fruity off-dry Riesling especially inviting. While lively and crisp, its juicy, quaffable style makes it an easy pleaser. Drink now.
Jolts of honey, lemon and lime introduce this animated Spätlese. It's forward and approachable with sunny tangerine and peach flavors, but maintains a nervous tension of acidity. The finish is brisk and tight.
An unusual blend of Syrah, Tempranillo, Petite Sirah and Mourvèdre, this tasty wine keeps its focus, offering up a palate-pleasing mix of plum and blueberry. There's a dash of pepper and pleasantly earthy tannins. All in all, this is a fine, out-of-the-ordinary pizza and burger wine.
This yellow-gold wine is packed with bright floral and citrus scents and flavors. It's a mouthful of lemon-drop goodness, with the rough edges smoothed by a percentage aged in neutral oak. The finish features light honey, with a slight burn.
Fresh and fruity, this wine comes from Grand Cru vineyards in Oger in the Côte des Blancs. With its soft texture and ripe character, it's an attractive wine with bright citrus and pear flavors. The mineral streak, though, seems to be missing.
This is a steely wine, tight with acidity and lemon fruits. It has a mineral, tangy texture that is still calming down, which suggests a young wine that needs time. Certainly the fruit is all there, if with a nervy character. Drink the wine from 2018.
Underbrush, spiced plum, vanilla and French oak are some of the aromas you'll find on this full-bodied red. The dense palate offers dried black cherry, toast, coconut, licorice and oak-driven spice alongside round tannins. A walnut note closes the finish. Drink soon.
A showy nose of violet perfume and grape candy emerges from this bottling. Similar flavors persist on the palate, along with a touch of licorice. The wine is not overly complex, but it's quite easy to quaff.
From estate-grown Merlot (78%), Cabernet Franc and Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine is shy on the nose and full bodied in flavor, offering ripe, fleshy blackberry, tar and espresso.
From a high-altitude vineyard in the heart of the Douro, this is a fruity while well textured wine. With a strong mineral character that comes from the lees stirring during fermentation, it has both bright citrus fruits with acidity and a more tropical character. Drink now.
This is infused with engaging scents of red berry, crushed violet, rose and a balsamic whiff of eucalyptus. The linear palate is tightly wound, offering dried wild cherry and a note of light baking spice accompanied by rather austere tannins. Drink after 2018.
Luminous and linear, this medium-bodied red offers scents of blue flower, rose, perfumed berry and a whiff of chopped mint. The vibrant palate delivers red cherry, strawberry and licorice alongside fine-grained tannins. Enjoy through 2017.
Black cherry, blueberry jam, volcanic rocks, river stones and a mace spice show on the nose of this wine. The palate is thick with black fruit and dark chocolate, the tannins showing lots of structure and flavors of purple flowers giving depth. It needs more time in the bottle to reach full potential.
A touch of smoky minerality lends intrigue to this otherwise peachy-keen dry Pinot Blanc. It's primary and fruity with a rich full-bodied palate, but wraps up tight and crisp on the finish. Drink now.
Aromas of oak, toast, espresso and coconut carry over to palate along with coffee, a hint of baked plum and a confectionary note. Drying tannins leave an astringent finish.
Here's a tasty, full-bodied Shiraz that tastes like the Aussie wines after which it is named. It has ripe, jammy flavors and a broad, rich texture that helps the flavors linger on the finish. It recalls blackberry jam, but not nearly that sweet.
This offers aromas of dill, wet leaves, hay, pickled beets, roasted coffee bean and spearmint. The palate lacks fruit richness, delivering instead espresso and vanilla-sweetened oak. Astringent tannins generate a tongue-drying finish.
Hailing from Korcula, the birthplace of Marco Polo, this Croatian white has aromas of lemon preserves and caramelized pineapple. There are flavors of dried apricot and vanilla on the entry, with a burst of green apple in the midpalate.
This austere wine tastes lean with a touch of wax, honeysuckle and apple. Creamy seafood will coax out its soft and subtle nature.
Juicy and supple on the palate, this has bold flavors of blackberry, pepper and currant. It's a casual wine that would do a grilled burger plenty of justice.
The apricot notes of Viognier come through strongly with this smooth, ripe wine. It has a steely character and a cool freshness from the Arinto and Síria in the blend. All in all, an attractive wine that could age a few months.
A blend of 75% Cabernet Franc, 17% Cabernet Sauvignon, 8% Petit Verdot, this features scorched herb, tar, leather and dark cherry aromas. It's a graceful, medium-weight wine, endowed with polished tannins and pliant acids.
This new cuvée brings forward, spicy, peppery fruit centered around cranberry flavors. The back end tannins turn earthy, and take the shine off the finish. Perhaps a bit more bottle age will open it up.
A blend of Touriga Nacional with a more local grape, Jaen, gives a juicy, light and fragrant wine. There's a tannic structure, but the wine is more to do with red fruits and acidity. Drink in 2015.
Despite showing ripe, raisiny aromas, this is solid in the mouth, with adequate acidity. Earthy flavors of blackberry and plum are straightforward and basic, while the finish hums along with a mild raisiny flavor.
Fermented in stainless steel, this medium-bodied wine is supple in nutty pear and fig, as well as viscous in honey. Serve chilled with chicken-lemongrass banh mi.
Quite cloudy due to being unfiltered, it offers subtle lemon peel and chalkboard at first on the nose. Some buttered croissant elements arise as the wine opens up. The mouthfeel is even and soft, with a slight creaminess alongside citrus, peach, and, fittingly, a bit of beeswax. Still very tightly wound, it would go well with a Cobb salad or shrimp Louie.
Orange peel and lychee aromas are typical of the variety. This feels straightforward, juicy, clean and fresh, with tangy acidity. Flavors of lime, lychee and tangerine finish bright and snappy.
Gritty, heavily roasted aromas of stewed berry, coffee grinds and compost are less than appealing, although with airing things improve. This is wide and blocky in the mouth, with ripe, raisiny, roasted black-fruit flavors matched by bitter espresso. Molasses and heat drive the finish on this pricey wine that's not in great shape.
Floral and lightly soapy, this is clean and simple, with bare bones varietal character. Drink it chilled within the first couple of years after release.
Pungent and acidic to the brink of sour, this tastes like unsweetened grapefruit juice. Though not especially typical for Riesling, it might be a pleasant match for fresh oysters.
The earthy intensity of herbaceous Sauvignon leaps out of the glass, giving a wine that's concentrated with citrus and green herbs. It's crisp at the end, with a hint of thyme that gives a peppery aftertaste.
Aromas of cherry cough drops and huckleberry syrup are heady and perplexing. The palate is like cough medicine, while syrupy cherry and berry flavors transition to medicinal and chocolaty. A rich, flabby finish is just more fuel for a unique but challenged fire.
Ripe and jammy, this is a rich wine from a fine vintage. The tannins are well-integrated into the black fruits, soft texture and juicy plum flavors. Drink now.
Stalky, short aromas suggest that this is raw and underripe. The palate feel confirms that impression; it's tight and choppy, with drying tannins. Roasted, gritty flavors of red fruits come with a sprinkle of cocoa, while the finish is tough in feel, spicy and ultimately mildly bitter.
Soft scents of apple sauce, currant bud, baby's breath and white nectarine mark this Sauvignon Blanc. It has impressive midpalate density, with coddling acids and a taste of Asian pear on the finish.
This soft and rounded wine has attractive lemon, peach and almond flavors. It's crisp while showing touches of honey that give a riper feel. It's ready to drink
Slightly oily, gritty aromas match wits with melon and lychee scents. The palate is propped up by adequate acidity, while flavors of melon, orange and lychee are typical and end sweet and tropical.
The nose is muted somewhat and the wine grippy yet a tad thin, its flavors a mix of licorice and dust.
Canned cranberry sauce and Indian spices collide on the nose. Light in color, it feels tad sweet once sipped, thanks to juicy flavors of strawberry and cherry.
Notes of cider, sweat and Chinese five spice give this wine an intriguing edge. Medium-full in weight, it has soft lines, plenty of flesh and a succulent finish.
A yeasty character masks the fresh fruitiness. Underneath the bready notes, grapefruit and other attractive citrus flavors are waiting to get out. Wait until 2015 to see if the wine improves.
Charred meat and toast tones overlay the central scent of dark fruit. The soft core tastes a bit slender in flavor, and the gentle acids give the palate a pliant feel.
This was whole-cluster pressed and fermented in stainless steel. Low in alcohol  and high in acid, it's bone dry, short, and finishes on the sour side of tart, with a hint of rot.
The low alcohol suggests fruit that was minimally ripened, and the flavors seem closer to fresh greens than ripe fruit. There's a splash of gooseberry, again quite tart, and a leesy texture. Drink chilled with a fresh salad.
This is full of superripe red fruits, full-bodied and concentrated. It offers spice as well as fruitiness, both well integrated and given a lift by the attractive lemon acidity. It's a rosé for winter and could match turkey with its weight and density.
Very tasty and fresh, this well-balanced wine combines tart citrus aromas with rich lime peel and melon flavors. Mostly fermented in tank, 15% was barrel fermented, which would account for the smoothness and roundness in texture.
Upholding the Trimbach reputation for making classically styled wines, this is a crisp, fresh Pinot Blanc. It has a light touch of spice, although the wine is really dominated by tight green apples and fragrant acidity. It is ready to drink now.
This accessible Barolo leads with a pretty fragrance of crushed blue flower, wild rose and bright berry. The palate delivers Morello cherry, black raspberry and cinnamon notes alongside fresh acidity and supple tannins.
The superior cuvée from Mirabeau, this is a tight, firm and dry wine that has some weight. It's rich and full in the mouth, spice allied to red fruits, citrus and a touch of minerality. It's ready to drink but will be better mid-2015.
This bright, medium-bodied red opens with aromas of underbrush, rose, violet and ripe berry. The lively palate offers juicy dark cherry, black raspberry, orange peel and a hint of baking spice alongside fresh acidity and lithe tannins.
Fruity, fresh and bone dry, this offers aromas of bright red berries and a hint of violets. The refreshing palate delivers intense strawberry and wild cherry accented with a hint of white pepper. Serve chilled and sip on the deck in summertime or pair with cold cuts.
Aromas of red rose petals and perfumed red berries jump out of the glass of this spicy rosato made with Nebbiolo. The lively palate offers creamy wild cherry, crushed raspberry and cinnamon alongside vibrant acidity.
Juicy black fruits push through bold tannins, giving a ripe character to this generous wine. Lively acidity preserves both the freshness and its future. Drink now through 2018.
This amber colored, orange-style wine has aromas of canned peaches and apricots on the nose, while fresh stone fruits seem to dominate the full bodied palate. The finish is creamy and lingers on.
With attractive juiciness, this ripe wine has plenty of room for both tannins and black fruits. It is fruity, acidity topping the berry flavors and bringing in toast and final spice. Heather van Ekris, owner of this estate that began as a Middle Ages convent, brought in Hubert de Brouard of Château Angelus in Saint-Émilion as consultant beginning with this vintage. Drink from 2017.
Juicy while structured, this is already a well-balanced wine with dark tannins, wood flavors and a dense structure. With a firm character as well as ripe black plum fruits, it is going to develop well. This 40-acre Merlot/Cabernet Sauvignon vineyard is on a slope above the Gironde estuary punctuated by a château with 13th-century origins. Drink from 2018.
Layered with toasty wood, this rich wine delivers blackberry fruits, a strong sense of tannins that enrich the fruit, and a concentrated aftertaste. From one of several small properties tended by owners Christophe and Marie Jo Lavau, it will age well. Drink from 2017.
This wine is electric pink in color, with notes of strawberry bubblegum and cranberry. It drinks off dry, with watermelon and red fruit flavors that linger on the finish.
The pretty but powerful nose is like striking a gusher of black gold in a field of lavender, full of tar, violet and blueberry. Leather and deep purple fruit lead the palate, with charred meat savoriness, black pepper spice and plum skin tannins making a good case for this seven-acre vineyard that was planted in 1998.
A dark and richly dense wine, this is packed with black fruit notes and concentrated tannins. Aged in French and American oak, it has a strongly spicy character, with bright acid and a solid tannic structure. Drink after 2015.
Ruby-violet in color, this wine has aromas of cherry, cola and almond blossom. Smooth and bright on the palate, with soft tannins, shades of cherry, menthol and smoked meat bring nuance to the finish.
Compact and dense on the nose, this Merlot is in good shape from head to toe. Dark berry and spice aromas hold up to airing. This is full on the palate, with spicy, baked berry flavors. Barrel contact brings a strong savory spice element on the finish.
The third wine of Quinta da Romaneira is made to be drunk young. The aim has succeeded here, as this is a ripe and smoothly textured wine. It has richly satisfying notes of black plum and soft, already well-integrated tannins. Acidity shines through at the end. Drink now.
This wine gives a clear, clean shot of pure raspberry fruit, lightly dusted with coffee and cocoa. A whiff of smoke drifts across the finish as the wine quickly thins out.
A 10 month stint in oak has given this rich wine a seriously spicy character supported by dark chocolate and black fruit flavors. Syrah, Castelão and Cabernet Sauvignon give this young wine tannins and a dark texture that needs to soften. Drink after 2016.
This is a powerful and dense wine, displaying dry, concentrated tannins over tart black fruit tones. Bitter chocolate flavors are also evident from the oak aging. It might need time to balance out—drink after 2016.
Passionfruit dominates the nose on winemaker Matt Ortman's tropically infused take on the grape, with a dash of kiwi to lighten things up. That tropicality rules the palate as well, but with a touch of flint as a grounding element.
Aromas of fresh violet, blue lilac, mint, menthol and orange zest take center stage. The ethereal fragrance doesn't carry over to the palate however, which displays oak extract, dried cherry, espresso, dried sage and roasted coffee bean alongside bitterly astringent wood tannins that dry out the mouth and generate an abrupt finish.
Here's a bright, young Nebbiolo that opens with aromas of violet and perfumed berry. The palate offers crunchy black-cherry and red-raspberry flavors that are framed by sleek tannins. A hint of baking spice unfolds on the finish.
This wine is produced solely with Nerello Mascalese grapes aged in terra cotta vessels and made with no selected yeasts or added sulfites. It offers concentrated black cherry, raspberry and licorice flavors accented with cracked black pepper and smoky mineral alongside big but velvety tannins. The warmth of alcohol marks the close.
Made from both red and white native grapes, this offers an intense fragrance of white and red roses. The floral notes carry over to the palate along with crushed Morello cherry, raspberry jam and candied strawberry. Cracked white pepper and mineral add interest.
Layered and well textured, this is a dense and deeply colored wine, with black plum and new leather flavors. It's attractively oaky, full-bodied and firm in tannins. Robust but well behaved, this will be great with rich steaks, chops and stews. It incorporates 10% Tannat and 7% Graciano.
This is a full-bodied, rich rosé from the walled Clos des Muraires, ripe with red berry fruits and the warm sunshine. Fruity and with a mineral texture, it can age until mid-2015, although it is delicious now.
Firm and dense, this is a fine example of the Baga grape. It gives both juicy blackberry and red berry notes, with a solid layer of firm tannins. It has the power, the structure and the acidity to see sometime in the cellar. Drink after 2016.
This curious blend of 61% Riesling and 39% Sauvignon Blanc manages to succeed, with lime rinds, limestone and wafts of gasoline intriguing the nose. There's not much acidity on the palate, but it does offer a chalky grip along with limeade flavors.
Fresh cantaloupe aromas shift to savory pressed apple and pear on the palate of this juicy, easygoing Riesling. Semidry in style, it's pleasantly slick and sweet, accented by spice and honey notes. Drink now.
Ripeness and richness reign over this full-bodied, almost-sweet wine. Oaky, maple-syrup aromas and lots of black cherry and boysenberry flavors partner with a smooth, posh texture. Think of it almost like a Port, but drier and not quite so high in alcohol.
Light, perfumed aromas are feint on the nose. The palate is intense and tightly presented. Raspberry flavors are direct prior to transitioning to oak and related peppery spice. A hot sensation rises up on a snappy finish.
This is made in a style that will work well with foods looking for sharp acids, especially shellfish. Lemon rind, light citrus and peppery highlights are wrapped in searing acidity.
Briny citrus, match stick and yeasty aromas are a bit jumbled on the nose. The palate is minerally and nicely textured, with grapefruit, passion fruit, tarragon and lemongrass flavors. A lingering lime note hits on the finish.
Made of 50% Sangiovese, 20% Merlot, 10% Cabernet and 10% Syrah, this opens with aromas of violet, red berry and a whiff of espresso. On the easy-drinking palate, a note of white pepper accents a core of juicy black cherry. It's balanced with fresh acidity and polished tannins. Enjoy soon.
This wine is from Alain Dominique Perrin's Lagrézette estate in Cahors, although it is not labeled as such because the Cahors AOP is only red wine. Made from Malbec, it has the palest rosé color and elegant texture, with strawberry fruitiness and lively final acidity. Drink now.
Opulent pear, apple and floral aromas are followed by a fresh but fleshy array of tropical fruit in this easy drinking blend. Oak aging adds complexity but minerality keeps the wine poised. Pair with smoked salmon and poultry.
Musky in leather, tobacco and black tea, this wine is juicy in currant and cranberry before finishing a tad flat. From a robust mountain appellation, it's surprisingly resolved in terms of tannin and the oak is relatively restrained.
Aromas of chewing gum dust, lime and wet stones are simple and clean. This Viura is equally light and citrusy on the palate, with moderately briny flavors of lime and white grapefruit. A mild palate doesn't bring anything new to the game.
From one of the emblematic estates of Cahors, this entry-level wine is all fruit. It shows the tannic character of Malbec, contrasted with juicy black currant flavors and attractive acidity. The wine can be drunk now.
Made to be consumed young, this is fresh and fruity. It has a layer of tannins that support the red berry and plum fruit tones. The aftertaste is fresh and fruity. Drink now.
Produced from vines around the showpiece medieval château of Monbazillac, this is a lightly honeyed, fresh and orange marmalade-flavored wine. It has botrytis to give the proper dry core along with a rich feel that is just cut with acidity. It's delicious now and will get better. Drink now, or wait until 2016.
Bramble notes mingle alongside fresh lemon and pear in this off-dry Riesling, lending a savory, earthy tone throughout. Bright citrus flavors lead a brisk, clean finish. Drink now.
Cherry, raspberry and spicy oak aromas open this chunky, standard Rioja. Roasted plum and currant flavors turn more oaky on the back side, while the finish feels fresh and tastes lightly spicy.
Dry, earthy aromas of cherry and tree bark set up a juicy, pointed, drawing palate. Plum, cherry and currant flavors are zesty and pushed by raw acidity, while the finish is aggressive and racy. 80% Tempranillo and 20% Cabernet Sauvignon.
This fresh, young and fruity wine is made to be drunk young. It has soft tannins and intense acidity, mitigated by the ripe, red fruits and smoky aftertaste.
Merlot dominates, but handfuls of Cabernet Sauvignon, Malbec, Ruby Cabernet and Petit Verdot also figure into the mix, providing a soft, spicy, easy-drinking experience. Blackberry and plum are the fruit components represented best, with a smoky undercurrent that spreads on the flat finish.
A fun and informal sparkler, made from the native Sicilian grape Grillo, this opens with aromas of white flowers and acacia. The lively palate offers white peach, green apple and pineapple alongside bright acidity and persistent bubbles.
There's more than just fancy packaging to distinguish this limited edition from its partner Colombelle L'Original. It is, if anything, even more herbaceous and certainly more intense, while showing some richness at the end.
This medium-bodied red offers ample cherry and leather flavors but not much richness or depth. It's clean on the finish, with modest tannins and mouthwatering fruit.
An unusual and full-bodied wine, this is a very deep red in color, smells perfumey and plummy, and tastes floral, ripe and extravagant. After dinner, it would make a good accompaniment to blue cheese and toasted walnuts. The wine was made with dried grapes in a style traditional for Amarone wines in Italy.
An unusual blend of Chardonnay, Incrocio Manzoni and red Nebbiolo and Rossola grapes, this charming white opens with aromas of Alpine violets and fragrant red berries. The bright palate delivers juicy tropical fruit and apple alongside brisk acidity.
Gently herbaceous with a character that also allows room for a creamy texture, this is a refreshing wine with a crisp edge, always in moderation. Drink this fresh wine now.
Light wood-aging has given this wine some rich structure while keeping its natural fruity character. Black currant fruitiness dominates the attractive juicy nature of the wine with its smooth texture and final acidity. Drink from 2016.
This is high-toned and sharp, with bright fruit flavors of raspberry and cherry lollipops. There's not much else to it, except a hint of alcoholic burn in the finish.
This deliciously fruity wine is all about citrus, pear and crisp apple. Lively and ready to drink, it will improve through 2016 as the intense acidity softens.
A severe edge of dried herb and savoriness in this single-vineyard Cab evolves into juicy black currant and cassis midway through. The tannins remain tightly wound and thick on the palate, before the wine finishes dry and concentrated.
Very light in the glass, this offers lime juice, lemon peel and tuberose on the nose. There is decent acidity and minerality on the palate, with apples, white flowers and melon.
Strong aromas and flavors of fire-grilled meat make this an unusual red and suggest a good food pairing. It's full bodied, quite tannic and dry, and feels bold in texture while emphasizing herb, earth and olive flavors.
Stalky aromas make for a sketchy opening. In the mouth, this is blocky and grabby in feel. Burnt, underripe flavors of berry fruits are herbal and finish with grassy notes.
This aromatically unusual wine offers notes of lees, peach and latex paint. The palate has sweet peach flavors and a creamy feel but the concentration is wanting.
Candied red-fruit aromas are thin and limited. This is edgy, rubbery and tannic in feel, with rudimentary raspberry and red-plum flavors. A juicy finish is lean and tastes medicinal.
This is defined by its oak dominance. Aromas of hot wood, vanilla, sawdust and dry, leafy plum set up a resiny, all-wood palate with sharp acidity. Hot, toasty flavors of berry fruits and campfire smoke finish resiny and low on fruit.
This delicate but lively wine has bright minty, leafy, lime and rose petal aromas, plus juicy grapefruit flavors. It is light to medium bodied, fresh, aromatic, slightly sweet and easy to enjoy.
Intensely smoky aromas seep through the palate of this unusual Chardonnay. Fresh apple and lemon flavors are pleasant, but overwhelmed by savory nut and smoke tones.
Damp, mushroomy earth hogs the aromatic profile of this 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 29% Merlot and 21% Cabernet Franc, which tenaciously holds to the eucalyptus and cedar parts of its character. Somewhat diluted on the palate, it finishes slightly bitter and green.
This overoaked Malbec smells almost entirely of clove and chocolate. It's bulky and creamy in feel, with bland, stewy berry flavors and a blanket of oaky clove. Oak spice and heat control the finish.
This has an apple-cider aroma, red-apple flavors and a rounded texture. Medium-bodied, it is soft, tastes mellow and almost sleepy in personality.
Lean and green, this tight wine is more tannic than fruity. It could soften, although the green flavors won't go away.
The producer takes a hands-off approach to its wines. In this case the tactic may not have paid off, the wine muted, dull and slightly sour. The acidity veers in the wrong direction vis-a-vis the fruit, which suggests tart green apple and lemon.
A 40% Cabernet Sauvignon blended with 35% Syrah and 25% Merlot, this wine is earthy in a slightly musky way, and herbaceous to the point of green. Astringent tannins round out the picture, which remains a little out of focus on the palate.
There is probably too much wood aging in this wine. It's still young, but the dominant toastiness gives a burnt character. It has a hard edge, tough and very dry.
Roasted, barnyard, leathery aromas of lemony oak and tomato are far from ideal. This has a scratchy, tartaric feel to it, while herbal raspberry flavors are backed by a mulchy aftertaste. It's stewed on the finish and weedy.
Notes of ash partner with white pepper, herbs and peach. This wine is very light in style without the concentration to stand it up.
Oaky aromas of maple and molasses are overriding and ponderous. In the mouth, this is tannic and punishing. Flavors of coconut and chocolate are overly dominant, leaving nothing but candied stickiness and wood resin on the finish.
Half Merlot, the rest a mix of Petite Sirah and Syrah, this has a bell pepper and jalapeño greenness that can't be avoided in aroma or taste. From there, the wine seems diluted yet finishes with a hit of heat.
Aromas on this wine are faint with notes of soda water, vanilla and peach. The stone-fruit flavors seem washed out and dilute.
Syrupy red-berry and cherry aromas are medicinal, while the mouthfeel on this blend is hard and abrasive. Berry and herbal flavors are on the sour side, while the finish does nothing to bring this around.
Flower and hay aromas lead to simple pear and spice flavors in this basic white. Mild woody notes show on the finish. Drink now.
This wine offers a somewhat untoward combination of herbs, nori, tire rubber and blue fruit. Flavors are sharp-edged backed by chalky tannins.
Barrel notes of burnt popcorn and char overtake any varietal aromas on this wine. Flavors seem quite light accented by a lightly creamy feel.
The bringing-together of 60% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot and 10% Sangiovese is rough, coming off as dry, smoky and a tad odd on the palate, the fruit hidden from sight.
This wine is aromatically untoward, with notes of green herbs, bell pepper, dried tobacco and black pepper. The flavors are silky in feel and show decent concentration along with tart acids.
This unusual wine displays notes of cigar box, strong green herbs and woodspice. It drinks on the lighter side of medium bodied with coffee and nori flavors and a smoke-filled finish.
Grassy aromas mix with whiffs of red licorice candy and cinnamon to create an odd nose. Hard on the palate, this blend tastes of rubbery plum and pepper, with a minty, green finish closing it out.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon (40%), Merlot (35%), Syrah (22%) and Carmenère, this offers aromas of green tea, sawdust, blueberry and barnyard. The flavors are tangy and elegant in style.
Funky aromas of gumdrop and stale fruit are none too appealing. This lacks definition on the palate, while flavors of melon, candied berry and cotton candy are muddled. The finish lacks crispness.
Raspberry and plum aromas lead to a jammy, pruny palate with no structure. Prune, raisin and carob flavors finish flaccid and not fresh.
This perennially delicious blend brings together 53% Grenache, 35% Syrah and 12% Mourvèdre. It lets each variety speak, offering a structured expression of juicy strawberry, mint and balanced ripeness. Despite its nuances, it's not afraid to be bold.
This blend of Cinsault, Grenache and Syrah is attractively fruity. It has a crisp texture that gives it a bright character, red-currant fruitiness and intense refreshing acidity. The aftertaste is elegant and fruity. The wine's name (meaning to dare) is an anagram of Rosé. Drink now.
The Gavoty family has been at this estate since 1806. This is their top rosé, a rich wine that is powered by ripe red-cherry and spice flavors. The wine is food friendly with a mineral texture and dry firm aftertaste. Don't hesitate to drink this wine from late 2017.
This is a ripe, full and fruity wine. It is packed with attractive red-berry fruits and a crisp dry backbone. The acidity and the bright aftertaste make it a fine food rosé. It comes from a small appellation surrounded by the large Côtes de Provence area.
This is a really fruity, attractive wine from a fine estate. It is crisp with delicious acidity and a lively texture that gives the wine a refreshing tang. The wine is up front, full of fruitiness and ready to drink.
Focused crisp aromas of white fruits reflect a cool vintage. This is roughly one-quarter each Macabeo, Parellada, Xarello and Chardonnay, and it feels tight, fresh and focused. Dry stone-fruit flavors include a hint of lime, while this is clean on the finish.
Freshly cut pear, ivy leaf and spice mark the nose of this wine. The palate is slender but juicy, full of citrus-fresh fruit. It's all about joy and drinkability, feeling more structured and serious on the clean finish.
Made from 100% estate grapes, this wine is shy in aroma but happily light and bright on the palate. It's delicate yet framed by firm tannins, showing blueberry and toasty oak flavors and nuanced acidity.
A big-boned wine with a juicy midpalate, this round, plush expression of the variety offers welcome layers of dark cherry, raspberry and plum nicely accentuated with clove and sage.
This wine includes all five traditional red-Bordeaux varieties, Merlot the most dominant, resulting in tart Bing cherry and cassis flavors. It doesn't hold back on tannin or power, showing grippy persistence on the finish.
From the seven-acre site surrounding the producer's farmhouse in the heart of the appellation, this wine is tart with red fruit and vibrant, spicy acidity. Perfumed rose petal notes fill the glass, revealing a silky texture as it opens.
The perfect shade of pale pink, this bottling from Karen Steinwachs shows white peach and gravel scents on the nose, proving inviting and just ripe enough. Light lime and faint bubblegum flavors make for a refreshing palate, which offers New World oomph with Provençal tightness.
Very pale in color, this wine has managed to retain plenty of delicious fruity flavors. Yellow and white peaches show strongly as does a fine tang of acidity. The wine, from 40-year-old vines, has a fine touch of spice at the end. Ready to drink now.
In color, this could be a white wine with just the faintest hint of pink when seen against a white surface. Luckily, the fruit is still there, offering flavors of tangy orange and red currant. It has pepper and spice as well as final refreshing acidity. Drink now.
Ripe, juicy pear scents make for an inviting nose. The wine's concentrated palate presents ample citrus with those pear notes, as well as spicy grapefruit zestiness. This is lovely, dry, refreshing and focused.
This blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 40% Merlot, 13% Petit Verdot and 7% Malbec is warm and inviting on the nose, with baked blueberry, caramel, vanilla and violet touches. The palate continues its purple flavor theme with a core of blueberry fruit, but dried herb and mocha spice provide more complex layers.
Broad blueberry, black cherry and vanilla aromas show in this bottling from Steve and Pam Lock's eponymous westside Paso Robles vineyard. The mouthfeel is quite full, showing root beer float flavors, ample acidity and present but well-chiseled tannins.
Damp chaparral, dried blueberry, beef and pencil lead scents show on the nose of this blend of 54% Grenache, 35% Syrah and 11% Mourvèdre. Rounded blueberry and black plum flavors meet loamy soil, anise, thyme and marjoram spice, with a savory touch of smoke.
This densely layered wine has an underlying bright acidity and firm structure. Quiet, nuanced cranberry flavors ride a wave of earthy forest and black tea scents.
Elderflower, grapefruit, dried herb and tomato vine scents lead the way in this linear, medium-bodied white. The bright, savory palate offers honeydew melon, kiwi and juicy citrus flavors, with fresh acidity that leaves a mouthwatering finish.
This concentrated, assertive Barbera is also expertly balanced. Its black plum juice and spicy, smoky oak aromas lead to rich blackberry and black plum flavors coupled with velvety texture and full body. Moderate tannins provide some grip in the mouth, but the finish is smooth.
This wine's nose is still slightly reduced. Its palate shows ripe, almost luscious black cherry fruit, but it's held in check by sufficient freshness to feel bright, juicy and joyful. Glimpses of cinnamon and pepper liven things up.
Conference pear and ripe lemon scents unfurl on the nose of this wine. The palate reinforces those aromas with juiciness and ease. A zesty, refreshing edge keeps it lively and taut, feeling citrus-centered, refreshing and clean.
A touch of peach colors the white and green fruit notes of this zippy white, its freshness amplified by a slight spritz. It's light bodied, dry and very refreshing, with a lovely herbal edge on the palate.
Fermented in stainless steel barrels, this wine is a vibrant red hue, with strong dried cherry, cranberry and orange aromas. Full-bodied and concentrated, it's a dry and substantial rosé.
This wine is expressive, with aromas of violet, herb and purple fruit. The palate is lighter styled and tart, delivering a bit more tannic heft than this variety often shows. Give it some time to open up.
Lovers of this grape may rejoice that at least a few Oregon wineries have committed to making it in the pure, vivid, racy style that the state is known for. Juicy and fruit-loaded, with white melon, pineapple and citrus flavors, this is a sappy, persistent and thoroughly delicious wine.
A whiff of wet stone joins varietal aromas of cut grass, tomato vine and tropical fruit in this round, fragrant white. The fresh, full-flavored palate offers pineapple, juicy grapefruit and honeydew melon notes cut with citrus. Tangy acidity adds brightness while an energizing mineral note lifts the finish.
Exuberant notes of tropical passion fruit rise from the glass in this unusually aromatic Grüner Veltliner. Citrusy freshness pervades everything, giving lively direction to the bright, slightly spritzy palate. The finish is zesty, clean and refreshing.
The nose of this blend of 46% Roussanne, 24% Picpoul, 21% Viognier and 9% Grenache Blanc is quite lush at first, evoking pan-seared pear and pineapple, but a steely tension keeps it in check. On the palate, coconut and honey butter flavors are cut by searing acidity.
Rubbery aromas of pencil eraser, raisin, blueberry and red bell pepper are good but not at the highest level. Chalky and abrupt in feel, this is good on the palate but lacking a bit in flow. Medicinal red-berry flavors finish with sandpaper tannins.
Opaque and thick, this wine is robust, yet balanced—a study in cedar and pencil lead that drives into a dimension of dried herb. The savory components find companionship in fruitier notes of cherry and blueberry, before a tannic, oaky finish closes things out.
Choppy, stalky red-berry aromas shows a modest green note and a reedy quality. Although raw in feel, this offers a solid mix of plum and stalky berry flavors. A dry, peppery, oaky finish tastes as if the grapes struggled to get fully ripe in what was a cold vintage throughout Spain.
Aromas of ripe berry, grilled herb and a whiff of wild flower lead the nose. The fresh, enjoyable palate offers fleshy red cherry, nut and mineral alongside bright acidity.
Subtle but alluring aromas of yellow spring flower and white almond lead the way while the fresh palate shows mature apple, sage and mineral alongside bright acidity. A tangy saline note signals the close.
This fresh, juicy wine is full of red fruits and has light tannins. A dry core supports the perfumed red-berry flavors. With acidity, the wine is likely to develop quickly. Drink from 2019.
Bright red fruits dominate this approachable wine that offers smoky tannins along with spice and acidity. With a fresh, fruity aftertaste, the wine will develop quickly. Drink from 2018.
This wine is ripe, full of yellow fruits that are balanced with crisp acidity. That gives a balanced wine that is juicy, perfumed and rich. The aftertaste is equally attractive, showing lemon-zest flavor.
The aromas of forest floor, cherry, smoke, strawberry and herb provide intrigue. The flavors are light and elegant, hanging on the finish.
Extracted in dark blackberry and leather, there's a soft structure that makes this affordable wine work, leaving room for the peppercorn and dried herb so beloved in the variety.
Close to the Luberon hills and therefore outside the main Provence wine region, this 30-acre estate is in wild country. This blend of Grenache and Mourvèdre is crisp, with a strong mineral undertone. It has ripe red berry fruits that are lifted by the citrus acidity. The wine is tight, and nervy, just right for some Provençal food.
This rather soft and approachable wine offers tart green apple fruit with a delicate hint of honey and brown sugar. That sweetness is not to say it's a dessert wine: there's plenty of backing acidity. It's just a nice gentle nuance.
Pungent orange blossom and jasmine aromas show on the extremely floral nose of this bottling, which almost smells sweet. But the palate is dry with very vibrant acidity and a lot of interesting texture, showing ripe apple and pear flavors.
This ripe wine offers swathes of red fruits and soft tannins. The structure is well embedded in the juicy red-cherry flavors that are further lifted by acidity. It's an attractive, smooth wine that will be ready from 2017.
Made with Zibibbo, this refreshing white offers floral and fruit aromas suggesting white rose and yellow stone fruit. The lively palate tastes of apricot, lemon zest and a hint of aromatic herb alongside bright acidity.
This white blend offers aromas of melon, vanilla and mango, followed by a rich array of creamy white fruit and pineapple flavors. Balanced by a pronounced minerality and a touch of spice, it's a wine that will pair well with richer poultry and fish dishes.
Hard, rubbery blackberry and black-currant flavors are herbal but settle with airing. This feels round, fresh and fair. Flavors of spiced plum, blackberry, carob and generic spices finish dark and foresty, with good overall balance.
Made with 70% Catarratto and 30% Viognier, this has aromas suggesting honeysuckle, yellow stone fruit and a savory whiff of tarragon. The soft, round palate shows pear, citrus and a hint of apricot while a note of bitter almond closes the finish.
This balanced, ripe and fruity wine is already refreshing and crisp. Plenty of red-currant flavors go along with the lively acidity and bright aftertaste.
Intense aromas of tropical fruit, banana and white stone fruit lead the nose on this straightforward, refreshing wine. The vibrant palate doles out juicy pineapple, citrus and white peach alongside tangy acidity.
This 100% Feteasca Alba has aromas of tropical fruits and lemongrass. It is medium bodied with good minerality and flavors of apple, mango, grapefruit and pear.
This 100% Traminer is light bodied and has aromas of pineapple, peach, kumquat and rose petal. It is soft and balanced in the mouth with flavors of peach, apricot and lychee.
Situated on the east coast of Corsica, this vineyard is 50 hectares. The wine is ripe, full in the mouth and refreshingly fruity. There is a touch of spice as well as great waves of fresh acidity.
Familiar berry aromas blend with hard spice notes and a hint of blueberry. Like many 2013s, this is showing a clamped-down mouthfeel along with flavors of peppery black fruits. A limited finish is hard and compact. Drink or hold for another five or more years; this isn't going anywhere.
This wine is crisp and refreshingly fruity. With red currant and bright spicy acidity, it is lively, just hinting at a tannic edge. It finishes with a burst of raspberries.
Full and soft, this wine is a rounded style of rosé. Ripe strawberry flavors are cut with crisper raspberries. The wine, produced at the Pessac-Léognan estate of Domaine de Chevalier, has attractive, refreshing acidity to complete a harmonious package. Drink now.
This family estate, established since the 14th century, has produced a light, beautifully fruity wine in the difficult 2013 vintage. With red fruits and soft tannins, it is fully of ripe berry flavors cut by acidity.A light structure in the background will allow the wine to age, although it is ready to drink now.
This red blend from Moldova is composed of 70% Feteasca Neagra and 30% Cabernet Sauvignon. It has scents of black pepper, black plum juice and a whiff of jalapeño. In the mouth there are flavors of dried plum, cinnamon, clove and persistent sweet tannins in the finish.
Smoky notes of roasted meat and white pepper spice up the plum skins and blackberry fruit that show on the nose of this bottling. The smoke is also prominent on the sip, where graphite minerality frames the blueberry and blackberry fruit. The character of slightly burnt balsamic reduction sauce also shows through.
Stone fruit and slightly funky yet natural aromas get this organic and biodynamic varietal Xarello off to a good start. A standard mouthfeel along with apple and banana flavors finish clean but nothing more. From 67-year-old vines.
Underbrush, leather, sun-baked soil and chopped herb aromas emerge from this structured red. Loaded with personality, the palate delivers juicy layers of ripe Morello cherry, crushed raspberry, baking spice and pipe tobacco flavors, framed by firm, chewy tannins. It's a full-bodied wine that will reward several more years of cellaring. Drink 2019–2032.
A beautiful black currant character animates this classically-styled wine. It's fruity and generously spiced on the nose, with cinnamon and nutmeg scents from oak. Its flavors build on that black currant, with spice notes giving it a layered effect, supported by fine-grained tannins. While irrestible now, this will be best after 2019.
This winery, with its Los Alamitos tasting room east of Long Beach, sources from a variety of vineyards to make some impressive wines. This bottling shows crushed black pepper, tar, roasted lamb and savory herb notes on the nose. The palate is tangy with underripe boysenberry, thyme, black tea and roasted lamb flavors.
Soft yet dark aromas of alpine strawberry, blackberry, pepper and leather need time to open on this bottling's tightly packed nose. With patience, the palate releases layers of flavor, from cranberry and pomegranate to wild herb, crushed rocks and earthy spices. Drink 2018–2028.
Young Pinot Noir can sometimes dazzle you with juicy expressive downright sensational fruit, as this does. Though tasted prior to its official release, the wine drinks beautifully, offering a big hit of citrus flesh and rind along with lovely raspberry and blueberry fruit. It's forward, fresh, balanced tightly against its lush acidity, and is already just about irresistible.
Sichuan pepper and sultry mulberry aromas meet with seaweed and iodine aromas on the nose of this bottling. Deep strawberry fruit melds with black sage, licorice, mint, and slate-like minerality on the palate.
Aromas of cola nut, bacon, blackberry, licorice and wood smoke announce a raw rugged palate that's not nearly as plump and lush as it normally is: a clear reflection of the cool 2013 vintage in Rioja. Dry peppery black-fruit flavors finish with toasty oak and licorice notes. Although rough and rugged now, this should improve little by little through about 2030.
From the flagship Médoc estate of Bordeaux negociant Dourthe, this wine is impressive, ripe and ready to age well. The wood aging still shows slightly but that is already compensated for by the ripe black-currant fruits from the 66% Cabernet Sauvignon and the generous texture. Drink this wine from 2023.
Situated in the southern Médoc village of Macau, on the edge of the deep Margaux gravels, this estate has produced an impressive and structured wine. It is concentrated with its black currants and dark tannins. It is likely to develop slowly over several years. Drink from 2021.
This is a firmly structured wine, solid with fine tannins. Behind the tight facade, there is plenty of fruit as well as the acidity typical of the vintage. It will develop into a deliciously juicy wine. Drink from 2024.
Firm while also juicy, this is a bright and fruity wine. It has plenty of acidity as well as a lively texture that will allow this attractive wine to age well over the medium term. Drink from 2024.
Tangy and zesty, this is a crisp wine. It has tight acidity and a strongly citrus character. There are bright gooseberry and herbal flavors that show strongly. The downside is it is one-dimensional: all herbal fruit and crisp acidity. Drink from 2020.
This wine comes from an estate surrounding an impressive castle. The estate itself was created in the 6th century and is under the same ownership as neighboring Château Cissac. The wine is dark colored with intense flavor. It's sourced from old vines and carries Petit Verdot in the blend. It has the weight and the richness to age well. Drink from 2022.
Rich and soft, this is a fine, tannic and fruit-driven wine. It is full of bright acidity, smooth tannins and with a touch of smokiness from the wood aging. Produced from a small parcel in the Simard vineyard, it is set to age well. It has fine elegant tannic structure. Drink from 2023.
Laden with wood as much as rich fruit, this is a fully structured wine. Dark toast is prominent at this young stage although this will go as the wine balances out. Then it will be a dense wine full of black fruits and with balanced tannins and acidity. Drink from 2021.
The nose gives little away and is very shy. The palate, however, is a paradigm on lemony freshness—of textured candied lemon and pear richness and great concentration. All of the richness of Pinto Gris is present, but it is carried aloft by zesty citrus freshness to strike a note of harmonious tangy balance. The finish shimmers with pear, earth and spice.
The smell of wet earth is mixed with the scent of ripe peach. The palate is rounded with peachy sweetness which is countered by a pleasant, slightly bitter phenolic texture that accentuates the rich fruit even more. Showing beautiful maturity, this is expressive and ready to drink. The flavors are concentrated, pure and lasting, finishing off dry and lingering long.
There is a whole orchard full of apples here: crisp and green, yellow and juicy, red and mellow and also the very aromatic red-cheeked kind. These aromas fill nose and palate and present a wonderful balance between fruity richness and absolute zesty freshness. This is lissom, dry and light bodied but full of flavor with a very mellow apple finish.
Subtle dark-skinned berry, brown spice, leather and truffle scents gently lift out of the glass. The palate is polished and full-bodied palate, with licorice, clove and white pepper notes underscoring a juicy black cherry core. Firm, refined tannins provide structure. Drink 2019–2027.
Baked red cherry, rose petal, star anise and cinnamon sauce show on the spice-laced nose of this bottling from Rhône grape specialist Jaffurs. More cherry and deep raspberry flavors pop on the palate, meeting with lilac and violet notes, all polished by more cinnamon spice.
A full, rounded wine, this vineyard designate exudes a richness of juicy black cherry with savory pepper and meat aromas. The robust tannic structure contributes additional girth and depth, accentuating the darker, more brooding elements of the whole.
A big-shouldered red made predominantly of Cabernet Sauvignon with a balance of Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, this wine offers bold, firm tannins and heaps of body. Blackberry, chocolate mocha and clove flavors meet crayon and graphite notes in a mashup of classic and ripe styles.
From a site composed of sandy Goldridge soil, this white is tremendously floral, showing off the Gewürztraminer-like flamboyance of the musqué clone. It's equally exotic on the palate, its dense, gravelly texture offset by vibrant acidity, needing a swirl or two in the glass to resolve.
Deep salmon in color, this pink sparkler from Norm Yost of Flying Goat offers nectarine, strawberry, mandarin zest and lees aromas on the nose. The palate is tangy, with hints of cranberry-orange juice and tangerine rind.
Richness is the hallmark of this full-bodied, luxuriously ripe and fruit-drenched Zinfandel blend. Blueberry, black cherry and blackberry jam aromas and flavors coat the palate, crowding out any oak-derrived accents that might be present. It comes off as pure and fruity deliciousness.
New leather, sun-baked earth, blue flower and gamy hints of cured meat are some of the aromas you'll find in this structured red. The bright, taut palate offers sour cherry, crushed raspberry, pipe tobacco and grilled herb flavors, while youthfully firm tannins provide support. It's chock-full of character but may need a few more years to unwind. Drink 2020–2032.
Earth and rose petal notes open on the nose of this vineyard designate, a sultry and succulent wine that will please in its fullness of body and texture. Hearty blue and red berry flavors give it juiciness on the palate, seasoned with cola and cinnamon.
A rewarding wine for its price, this bottling from winemaker Eric Johnson weaves accessible butter-crusted cherry pie and vanilla aromas with bright, nuanced touches of hibiscus, rose petal and mace on the nose. The palate unfolds in layers, mulberry and plum fruit giving way to crushed sage and roasted fennel notes, each as texturally compelling as the last.
This barrel selection is difficult to spot, because the word “estate” is just very lightly imprinted under the name Lenné. It's clearly a bigger juicier more tannic wine than its excellent sibling, with deep flavors of raspberry fruit, highlights of white pepper, and acids that push the flavors down through the palate.
This Lodi-based producer shows skill in handling Carneros-grown fruit, putting together a medium-bodied, deliciously earthy wine. It's leathery in texture and exuberant in cardamom, strawberry and burnt orange flavors.
This blend of 68% Sangiovese, 20% Cabernet Sauvignon and 12% Merlot hits the nose with aromas of brick, uncrushed clove, red cherries, wet gravel, rosewater and a touch of tobacco. The palate is surprisingly light, but packs cedar, pipesmoke, clove and nutmeg against a red cherry and cranberry backdrop.
This is a 100% Prokupac from Serbia that leads with red cherry, black plum and some mild eucalyptus scents. In the mouth, there are flavors of black fruits, spice and a touch of mint. The tannins are well rounded and the finish is spicy.
Aromas of lemon meringue pie, lemon grass and caramelized pineapple open to flavors of wet river rocks, lemon zest and lime pith. Bright finish with strong minerality.
A spicy, nicely oaky aroma catches the attention right away. Next, equally oak-influenced flavors like vanilla and cinnamon complement solid pear and crisp apple notes. This has good complexity and makes a fine example of a well-oaked Chardonnay.
This wine is big, burly and complex, showing a preponderance of dark, ripe black fruit built around dusty tannins, leather and lavender. It's compelling and drinking well now.
Blue-black in color, this wine is dense in leather and grippy oak, a coming together texturally and on the palate in baked plum and blackberry. Full bodied, the wine settles in the glass to offer breadth and depth.
This is a silky, ready-to-drink red. Cherry and plum fruit mingle easily with earth, leather and mocha, finishing on a softly dusty note. Drink now–2023.
From a high altitude estate in the Vaucluse, this blend of 60% Grenache, 35% Syrah and 5% Cinsault is pale and coppery in hue, yet shows ample richness and weight on the palate. Notes of wet stone, berry and citrus linger on the mouthwatering finish.
It's rare in Bordeaux to find a single-varietal wine, particularly made from Cabernet Franc.This impressive, spicy wine brings out all the perfumed character of the grape. It could do with some aging, so drink from 2017.
This blend of Mencía, the local Grand Noir and Merenzao opens with raisiny, spicy, slightly baked aromas that suggest nutmeg. The palate is drawing and hard, with earthy, slightly cooked flavors of cherry and kirsch that end with a dash of lemony oak.
This blend of 70% Blaufränkisch, 20% Pinot Noir and 10% Zweigelt has aromas of cranberry, pomegranate and dried cherry with flavors of blackberry and red raspberry. There's a pleasant touch of spicy black pepper in the finish.
Tropical and fleshy with upfront acidity, this wine has a full-bodied richness on the nose and overtone, despite a more light-bodied midpalate and finish. Along the way, lemony brightness mingles with a taste of yellow apple.
Earthy berry and leather aromas are fairly quiet. A more lively palate offers good weight and overall composition, while plum, raspberry and spice flavors finish with sweeter notes of raisin and baked berry.
Smoky oak and hickory aromas are gaseous early on but come with ripe notes of raisin and plum. This Tempranillo-led blend feels round and grabby, but a touch hollow. Flavors of cherry, plum and chocolate are lightly oaked and finish with grabby tannins and modest earthy complexity.
This pale pink rosé offers a reasonably complex array of aromas and flavors, ranging from anise to wet stone, and cracked pepper to wild strawberries. It's medium to full in body, with a finish that resonates of wet stone and spice. Drink now.
Aromas of waffles and corn flakes suggest maturity and complexity. This feels open and wide, with depth to the palate. Direct flavors of lime and tangerine finish more citric and minerally than the nose, with a lasting sense of freshness.
Garnet colored with a light brick rim, this opens with aromas of leafy underbrush, leather and a whiff of menthol. The palate is straightforward for a Brunello and already surprisingly accessible, offering dried wild cherry, licorice and a hint of baking spice alongside ripe tannins.
Aromas of toast, coconut, thyme, vanilla and sugared plum cake lead the nose. The round, accessible palate offers black-cherry-marinated in spirits, licorice and a confectionary note framed in mature tannins. Ripe and evolving quickly, this is best suited for near- to mid-term enjoyment.
Earthy truffle stars around a thick, spicy bulwark of cardamom and dark black cherry and plum in this powerhouse of a Pinot Noir. Full bodied and self-assuredly robust, it's for fans of a larger, denser style of the variety, ready to be enjoyed with friends.
Tight and minerally aromas of gray slate and river stones meet with light and delicate scents of daffodil and nectarine blossoms that take some effort to coax from the glass. The palate is high-toned with lime zest and lemon-juice acidity, opening steadily toward blanched Marcona almonds and toast.
Aromas of citrus, especially white grapefruit and lime, are spunky and sweaty like Sauvignon Blanc or Verdejo. A solid, fleshy palate is home to a mix of citric and tropical flavors, while the finish reverts back to grapefruit, with a monotone feel. This is Macabeo, Garnacha Blanca and Pedro Ximénez.
Lemon peel, grapefruit and yellow apples constitute the fruit here, with minimal impact from aging in 20% new French oak. The wine is stylish and the acid-driven flavors penetrating. It's a fine food wine.
From parcels around the village of Maimbray, this wine is structured and tight. It has attractive fruit potential with plenty of lively acidity, surrounded by a strong mineral texture. The wine will be best from 2017.
Rich and spicy on the nose, this wine offers aromas of clove-laced cherry-pie filling. The mouthfeel is soft and the flavors are straightforward, with plush blackberry fruit, dark chocolate, licorice and a minty lift on the finish.
This opens with aromas suggesting spearmint, blackcurrant jam, toasted oak and roasted coffee bean. The aromas follow through to the evolved palate along with raisin and anise while raspy tannins clench the finish.
Aromas of blue flower, red berry, baking spice and toasted oak lead the nose. Made entirely with Sangiovese, the bright palate offers red cherry, raspberry and a hint of cinnamon alongside polished tannins.
Aromas of stewed prune, grilled pepper and roasted coffee bean join in this blend of 45% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 10% Sangiovese and 10% Cabernet Franc. The evolved palate shows date, vanilla and coconut. Drink sooner rather than later.
Blades of spearmint and cardamom are prominent on the nose of this wine, followed by a palate rich in pine and black cherry. Lithe with a dense ripeness, the finish is prickly in Asian spice.
Quite green out of the gate, the aromas display notes of savory herbs, cedar and spice, with a reduced note that blows off. The plum and dark-fruit flavors are tart and elegant with dry tannins that don't seem to have fully ripened. It has potential at the dinner table but doesn't quite stand up on its own.
Heady with aromas of rose petals, this wine has a thin, light-bodied texture and tastes of black licorice and black cherry. With a surprising ripeness of fruit, it ends without tension or nuance.
In this soft, elegant mix of almost 75% Merlot with Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, briny black olive finds balance against softly restrained layers of black cherry and cassis. The finish is dusted in cinnamon.
This is a big ripe wine full of juicy sweet plum flavors and dark dense tannins. It is still young with a bitter edge from the toasty wood aging. The wine, with its structure and firm texture, will need more time so drink from 2017.
Sanguine, this Merlot-dominant blend is juicy with well-toned structure and length. Smaller percentages of Syrah and Malbec provide succulence and softness, while also offering a density of black cherry and berry, finished in dark chocolate.
This is nice and hints at greater things, but ultimately it's more modest and fluffy than substantive. Aromas of oak resin, baked apple and vanilla introduce a palate with mild acidity and not much structure. Vanilla, caramel, banana and honey- dew flavors finish soft.
Fresh-pressed blackberry aromas leap out of the glass of this wine, along with asphalt and a touch of purple flowers. The palate is a study of density and thickness, with black plums, coffee and espresso showing most out of the deep, black flavors.
From 100% Charbono, this offers hints of raspberry, cherry and orange on the nose, amid dense cherry and strawberry flavors that are concentrated and yet doesn't overwhelm the acidity. Medium body and weight make it a nice option for sipping and at the table.
Broad aromas of seared lemons, white peach and nectarine are given nuance with a bit of quinine on this entry-level bottling. Stewed lemons and apple-custard flavors show on the plush and pillowy palate, cut with an acidic sizzle.
Fresh pear, white peach and fig aromas, a rich texture, and generous vanilla and layered almond flavors describe this tasty wine that stays fresh and fruity through the finish. It offers a medium body and nice balance.
This blend of Jaén, Alfrocheiro, Touriga Nacional and Tinta Roriz is ripe and juicy, with black fruit tones. It does have a structure that will allow the wine to age for a few years, so drink from late 2016.
An ancient variety now seen rarely, this Códega do Larinho has produced a wine that has a steely texture and tangy citrus flavors. It is bright with acidity, lime and grapefruit fruits and so crisp. It is ready to drink.
Honeysuckle and white peach show on the nose of this bottling from the region's longtime Rhône producer. It's a simple and straightforward take on the grape, with dried white peach, lemon-lime candy and apple-peel flavors, wrapped up with buzzing acidity and grippy texture.
Currant and spice aromas are subdued and solid. A strapping tight palate with strong tannins delivers roasted plum, cassis, spice and chocolate flavors prior to a dry spicy finish that holds its own.
This elegant red offers aromas and flavors of toast, raspberry, sour cherry, espresso and white pepper. Firm, fine-grained tannins provide the framework. Drink through 2019.
Dark plum and berry aromas are fairly full and concentrated, with a boost from spicy oak. A medium-bodied palate offers up tannic rub, while cherry, black plum and oak-based spice flavors finish creamy, dry and spicy, with a hint of tobacco along with mild heat.
Earthy aromas of raspberry and plum are familiar for Rioja. This feels fresh but also full and meaty. Balsamic raspberry and plum flavors finish warm, with chocolaty notes and a sense of competence and quality.
Jammy blueberry and boysenberry aromas include graphite and ink notes. This feels jammy to the point of being sluggish and heavy. Syrupy but not sweet flavors of herbal black fruits finish with a lasting gamy note.
Toast, espresso, coffee bean and dark berry aromas emerge on this firmly structured red. It's still very much on its oak, showing unripe sour cherry backed up by oak-driven spice including vanilla and coconut alongside grippy tannins.
A touch of smoky minerality lends intrigue to this otherwise peachy-keen dry Pinot Blanc. It's primary and fruity with a rich full-bodied palate, but wraps up tight and crisp on the finish. Drink now.
Aromas of oak, toast, espresso and coconut carry over to palate along with coffee, a hint of baked plum and a confectionary note. Drying tannins leave an astringent finish.
Aromas of stewed fruit, prune and toast lead the nose. The firm palate is still rather closed but reveals dried black cherry, fig, black pepper, clove and coffee alongside astringent, grainy tannins.
A whiff of crushed chalk lends some complexity to this crisp refreshing Riesling full of fresh apple, tangerine and lemon flavors. Off-dry on the palate, it's a juicy widely appealing wine for youthful consumption.
Mild tannin leads to integrated oak and a burst of juicy red cherry and pomegranate, laced in aromas of roses in this light-bodied wine. It finishes quick and lean.
Wild berry, iris, toast, coffee and vanilla aromas come together in the glass. The dense palate shows more oak influence, offering roasted coffee bean, toasted oak, coconut and dried black cherry alongside astringent tannins that give it an abrupt finish.
This opens with aromas of coffee, coconut and black-skinned berry. The tightly wound palate isn't very expressive but eventually reveals dried cherry, toasted oak and espresso alongside bracing tannins. Give it another year or two for the tannins to unwind and then drink sooner rather than later.
Swirls of honeysuckle lend a delicate sweetness to this silky, off-dry Gewürztraminer. It's honeyed and plush in peach and apricot flavor, but zesty lime acidity lends a stately appeal. Drink now.
Solid dark-berry aromas are dense and deep. This has a plump forward fruity palate with concentrated, toasty flavors of blackberry and dark plum. On the finish, this remains fruity and compact, with more than enough body weight.
Oaky aromas of raspberry and currant come with notes of animal fur, lemon peel and shoe polish. This feels lively and not too heavy, with pointy, almost lemony raspberry and plum flavors that finish herbal, dry, medicinal and oaky. Drink this fresh, wiry Rioja through 2018.
Crushed violet, red berry, mint and menthol aromas lead the nose. The firm palate offers dried red cherry, raw strawberry, licorice, white pepper and sage alongside grippy tannins that leave an astringent finish. Give the tannins a few more years to unclench then enjoy before the remaining fruit fades.
Aromas of dried berry, leather and camphor unfold in the glass. The full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, fig, menthol, anise and exotic spice alongside bracing tannins that leave a raspy, astringent finish. Let the tannins soften and unclench, then drink up.
The wood aging still shows in this wine, although not too aggressively. It also has layers of spice, acidity and plenty of red berry fruits. Let it soften and drink from 2017.
The flavors suggest raspberry tea, red currants, tobacco and zesty spices. It's clearly made in an earlier-picked lean, elegant style. Bone dry and hard in tannins, this is a tough Zinfandel to drink on its own. It wants rich stews, pasta dishes, short ribs, barbecue, all of which will wake it up.
Here's a bright wine that offers sensations of yellow and green apples accented with notes of ginger and citrus alongside lively acidity. The crisp palate ends on a clean, refreshing note. Pair with grilled vegetables or lightly seasoned seafood.
Aromas of stewed black fruit, oak, coffee and espresso carry over to the palate along with sour cherry layered with hints of bitter chocolate. It has firm but not very persistent tannins and closes on an astringent, drying note.
Penetrating blackberry and cherry notes are accented by layers of char, wet earth and granite in this elegant Pinot Noir. Hints of soy sauce and mushroom lend umami and complexity to the palate, alongside crisp, cranberry acidity that marks the finish. Quite tasty now.
Made from organic grapes, it shows vibrant pear, apple and citrus flavors along with a hint of exotic fruit. With its fine, frothy texture and bone-dry finish, it's a quintessential apéritif.
A hint of waxy lemon skin lends an elegant tone to this dry, refreshingly crisp Riesling. The palate is bright, with Meyer-lemon acidity and hints of wet stone and crushed rock that linger on the finish.
Dusty chalk notes add a mineral tone to lavish floral and stone fruit aromas on this brisk, easy-quaffing Riesling. It's dry in style, with fresh apple and blossom flavors that finish on a lingering, waxy note.
High alcohol gives this wine a distinct burn. The cherry fruit has a roasted fruit portiness, although the finish is entirely dry. Oak adds chocolaty toastiness. It's a good example of a big, ripe California red wine. Give it a good decanting and drink now.
Like any good Leyda Valley SB, this opens with oceanic aromas of citrus fruits, sea foam and minerality. In the mouth, it is juicy and stony, with washing acidity. Flavors of honeydew, lime and jalapeño finish firm, with good backbone. Drink this with salads, shellfish and ceviche.
The tannins are very hard on this bone-dry Cabernet Sauvignon, which was blended with 5% Cabernet Franc. It's tough to appreciate now, despite a wealthy core of blackberries, cherries and currants. Is it an ager? The best guess is no, it won't age, so drink now and over the next few years.
Supple and alive in spice this is a softly rendered Zinfandel with plenty of density that's balanced by tastes of bright berry. It's well priced and from good land, a hearty accompaniment to meaty meals, laced with enough acidity to offset its big flavor.
Here's a round Sauvignon with subdued aromas of ripe tropical fruit, peach and cut grass. The mellow palate delivers papaya and pineapple accented with a note of paprika alongside fresh acidity.
Pale pink in hue, it is soft and fresh. There are red fruits, a light tang of texture and a hint of the red wine that went into the blend. It's an attractive, apéritif style of rosé, all fruit and fragrance.
A blend of 80% Sangiovese, 15% Merlot and 5% Syrah, this robust but easy-drinking wine opens with aromas that recall blue flower, tilled soil, underbrush and ripe berries. The juicy palate delivers wild cherry, raspberry, white pepper and a hint of espresso along side soft tannins.
Soft and structured, this wine has an opening aroma of fruit roll-up and spicy leather. With a deep concentration of blackberry and tar flavors, it's an old-school Lodi wine from old vines that showcase the region's prowess with such grapes.
Yellow peach, green apple, Bartlett pear and lemon zest lead the nose. The rich, supple palate is brightened by crisp acidity. Pair this with roasted chicken or seasoned fish dishes.
Not quite dry, this is is a warm, creamy wine. It has fresh lemon juice, pineapple, bright acidity and a dense texture that bestows an intensely fruity character. It's ready to drink, but will be better at the end of 2014.
This is a full, structured and balanced wine. Red fruits, fragrant cherry flavors and acidity are intertwined with solid tannins. It needs aging, drink from 2015.
This blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 10% Cabernet Franc and 10% other varieties has aromas of green bell pepper, toasted oak, plum, blackberries, graphite and chocolate that all carry over to the palate. It's not very complex and not an ager so enjoy soon.
Fermented and aged in stainless steel without going through malolactic fermentation, this steely, waxy Albarino is ready for tapas, offering big bold tastes of peach and apricot. Textured and long-lasting, its tangible acidity will make seafood, especially shellfish, sing.
A smooth and rich wine that has a good mix between wood aging and ripe plum flavors. Tannins present a judicious support for the full fruits. Drink from the end of 2014.
Subtle aromas recall wild flowers, pears, and a whiff of Alpine herbs. The round palate delivers juicy yellow apple, citrus and a hint of bread crust alongside fresh acidity.
Elegant and structured, it opens with delicate aromas of wild flowers and a hint of Alpine herbs. The palate offers juicy yellow apples and lemon peel accented with notes of clove alongside crisp acidity.
This smooth, rich wine shows both ripe fruit and wood aging flavors. It has a mineral texture, plenty of citrus as well as pear and peach flavors, the whole gathered into toastiness. It would benefit from another year, so drink from 2015.
White flower blossoms, green apple, lemon zest and mineral aromas take center stage. The juicy palate offers Granny Smith and creamy white peach brightened by crisp acidity.
This creamy, polished wine has light flavors of wood aging that bring out the lemon and pear fruits. It's smooth, rounded and rich wine, with an attractive touch of freshness at the end. Drink from the end of 2014.
This blend of Loureiro and Sauvignon Blanc brings out a tropical element in both grapes. It has bright acidity but also a richer, fuller character, bright with lime and ginger. At the end, a green herbal character shows through.
The unnecessarily heavy bottle houses a rich, smooth and jammy wine. It has big, bold black fruits, tannins that already show softness and hints of wood aging. This aromatic wine is already developing quickly so should be drunk now and until 2018.
This lovely white has inviting aromas of green apple and lemon-lime and is brisk in acidity yet fully textured on the palate. An expansive wine with lots of food pairing possibilities, it'll sing throughout spring.
The deep soil of the Grands Cras has given a wine that is rich, mature and spicy. It's dominated by bitter cherry fruits, fragrant acidity and a softly tannic structure. Drink now.
For the vintage, this is a surprisingly lean wine. Some juicy fruit is still struggling out of the very dry tannic shell. Acidity is a dominant character of this firm, dry wine.
The wine is attractively fruity, its crispness balanced by round apple and pear flavors that give richness. It has a creamy texture, concentrated acidity and a finish that brings out lemon and lime.
This young, fruity wine is almost ready to drink. Attractive black currant acidity and light tannins t bring a bite to the natural smoothness of the wine. Drink from 2015.
Bordeaux wine should not have high alcohol; it detracts from the play between fruit and tannins, as in this wine. It is powered by its extracted structure, with flavors of bitter chocolate that leave the fruit behind.
This is a ripe, fruity wine, its herbaceous citrus character well blended with full melon and green apple flavors. Already attractive wine, it's full of crisp acidity and lively fruitiness.
This young Cabernet has aromas of black plum, vanilla and a big bowl of freshly picked blackberries. There are flavors of black fruits and freshly ground black pepper in the midpalate, with good acidity on the finish.
Cedar, pepper and herb show up in healthy doses within this dense, structured wine. A good measure of juicy red fruit hits the tongue midpalate before fading away.
Popcorn and butter are the lead aromas, and they give way to dusty baked apple over time. This wine feels round, but with just enough acidity. Flavors of candy corn, vanilla, spun sugar and ripe stone fruits finish sweet and fleshy.
Glitzy notes of lychee, pink flower and yellow plum skin mingle on the luscious, pliable palate. A blend of Traminette, Vidal Blanc and Viognier, this is full bodied and a touch sweet, with exaggerated flavors that cling to the finish.
Fresh and fruity, it has ripe blackberries, soft tannins and a fresh aftertaste. It presents an attractive smoky character along with vanilla and a rich aftertaste.
A richly-styled style of Vinho Verde, one that's well integrated, fresh and fruity. Baked apple and crisp lemon go well with the sweeter aftertaste to create a light and bright wine.
Baking spice, ripe dark cherry and cassis aromas lead to a medium-bodied palate that is soft and succulent. A blend of Sangiovese, Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, this finishes with tannic traction.
Light and textured, it's packed with lime and lemon flavors with a hint of sage. As dry as a bone, it's very much for food and is ready to drink.
Agile and glossy, this has toasty apple, pear and tropical fruit flavors that continue to a light, fresh-tasting finish.
This is a soft, still grippy Cabernet with an earthy, tobacco-infused character that somewhat overwhelms the taste of blackberry and black currant.
This is a fruity but dry wine, with a telltale hint of honey to bring out the Chenin Blanc character. It has an attractive line in almonds, along with crisp acidity and a tangy texture. Drink now.
This light wine offers attractive black currant fruitiness. Burnt tannins from the wood aging give it a bitter edge, although the aftertaste does bring back the freshness of the vintage.
Honey, almonds and intense acidity mingle in this off-dry wine. The acidity is still dominant, surpassing the apple and berry fruitiness. Wait until 2015 before drinking.
Brambly, lightly herbal aromas of berry fruit, sugar beet and a touch of chemical precede a wiry, narrow palate with briary flavors of herbal berry and cassis. A tannic, crimped finish is rugged and houses cherry flavors and heat.
Grassy, lightly weedy aromas set up a palate with sweet citrus and melony flavors. This is sticky and a touch mealy come finishing time, with a fleshy, unctuous feel and only modest structure and acidity.
Vinegary overtones suggest a volatile wine from the first sniff. Flavors are high-toned as well, with plum and cherry. Some sort of barrel treatment brings in dark chocolate and espresso, with slightly burnt, bitter tannins.
This young Chardonnay packs an overpowering array of scents and flavors, and it may get better if they mellow over time. The nose offers grapefruit, guava and vanilla, while the palate is dominated by canned pears.
This is Chardonnay with small amounts of Pinot Grigio and Viognier. The nose is nutty, oily and low on fruit. In the mouth, it's racy and citrusy in character. Flavors of orange, papaya and passion fruit are basic, while the finish is fresh and juicy, with tart flavors.
This is a soft wine, attractively fruity with gentle tannins. It is fresh with red berry fruits and open acidity. There is a burnt edge at the end which needs to blow off. Drink from 2015.
This Cabernet Sauvignon has aromas of black plum, violet and vanilla that pave the way for bright flavors of red plum and blackberry on the palate. The tannins are a bit chewy, but the long finish is rewarding.
Well-balanced, this medium- to full-bodied Zin offers spice and berry aromas and plummy flavors. The noticeable, firm tannins are a good thing in Zinfandel, which can sometimes be too soft.
This is hard-hitting, rumble-ready Rioja with raw, minty aromas coming in front of a packed, drying palate. Powerful berry flavors finish with a peppery flavor, rubbery notes and sharpness. This may improve some over the next two years.
Broad tropical fruit and nut aromas gain more focus on the medium- to full-bodied palate. The wine feels lush and plump, but solid acidity gives it some buoyancy.
Fresh smells of blue raspberry and black licorice characterize the nose. On the palate, it's heavily tannic, beginning with some cherry before becoming distractingly grippy. Hold until 2017.
Initial aromas are suggestive of turpentine and alcohol, but with time things improve. This is chunky and low on pulse; flavors of tomato, green herbs and red fruits are marginal, while the finish carries some burn and heat.
This balanced, ripe and fruity wine is already refreshing and crisp. Plenty of red-currant flavors go along with the lively acidity and bright aftertaste.
Intense aromas of tropical fruit, banana and white stone fruit lead the nose on this straightforward, refreshing wine. The vibrant palate doles out juicy pineapple, citrus and white peach alongside tangy acidity.
This 100% Feteasca Alba has aromas of tropical fruits and lemongrass. It is medium bodied with good minerality and flavors of apple, mango, grapefruit and pear.
Aromas of ripe berry, grilled herb and a whiff of wild flower lead the nose. The fresh, enjoyable palate offers fleshy red cherry, nut and mineral alongside bright acidity.
Subtle but alluring aromas of yellow spring flower and white almond lead the way while the fresh palate shows mature apple, sage and mineral alongside bright acidity. A tangy saline note signals the close.
This fresh, juicy wine is full of red fruits and has light tannins. A dry core supports the perfumed red-berry flavors. With acidity, the wine is likely to develop quickly. Drink from 2019.
Bright red fruits dominate this approachable wine that offers smoky tannins along with spice and acidity. With a fresh, fruity aftertaste, the wine will develop quickly. Drink from 2018.
This wine is ripe, full of yellow fruits that are balanced with crisp acidity. That gives a balanced wine that is juicy, perfumed and rich. The aftertaste is equally attractive, showing lemon-zest flavor.
This ripe wine offers swathes of red fruits and soft tannins. The structure is well embedded in the juicy red-cherry flavors that are further lifted by acidity. It's an attractive, smooth wine that will be ready from 2017.
Made with Zibibbo, this refreshing white offers floral and fruit aromas suggesting white rose and yellow stone fruit. The lively palate tastes of apricot, lemon zest and a hint of aromatic herb alongside bright acidity.
Made with 70% Catarratto and 30% Viognier, this has aromas suggesting honeysuckle, yellow stone fruit and a savory whiff of tarragon. The soft, round palate shows pear, citrus and a hint of apricot while a note of bitter almond closes the finish.
The tart fruitfulness of ripe, red apples rises from the glass. Chock-full of appetizing apple notes, this brings more flavor than your average Pinot Blanc. Drink soon while aromas abound.
Made with Inzolia, this has subtle aromas of white wild flower and orchard fruit while the fresh, linear palate delivers nectarine, lemon zest and mineral. A saline note wraps up the finish.
This wine is already in solid shape for near-term drinking. Black cherry fruit of medium weight is annotated with whiffs of smoke and coffee. It's fine for opening now through 2020.
Grapefruit and orange peel aromas are followed by a balance of white peach and lemon on the palate. Brisk but fuller-bodied, the wine has a viscous mouthfeel that finishes clean. This is a food-friendly wine to pair with fresh fish and poultry.
Whispers of smoke, toast and nut mingle amidst ripe blackerries and bramble in this full-bodied St. Laurent. It's softly structured, framed by feather-light tannins and a juiciness that's attractive for drinking now.
Pressed apple and dusty mineral tones turn a shade brighter on the palate of this crisp-tart off-dry wine. Zesty green apple and a touch of fresh herb linger through a moderately long finish. Drink now through 2020.
Red berry, rose petal and tilled earth aromas come together on this 100% Aglianico. The easygoing, enjoyable palate offers mature red berry and a hint of clove alongside mellow tannins.
Paler than typical for Australian rosés, this is more in the style of southern France. It's light to medium in weight, with a crisp, refreshing feel and bright berry and lime zest flavors. Drink now.
Turkey Flat's rosé has been an Aussie staple for more than decade. The 2015 is 92% Grenche, with the balance a blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Shiraz, Dolcetto and Mataro. Crushed stone and red berry scents lead the way, followed by flavors that are reminiscent of white chocolate and strawberries. It's fairly weighty for a rosé, with a long, slightly viscous finish.
There is a good range of flavor complexity in this medium-bodied, soothing wine. It starts with a bit of grapefruit and lemon in the aroma, then adds a riper peach flavor that matches the supple texture.
This dry wine smells and tastes vividly like blackberry jam but without the sweetness. It has an intense fruitiness, but also intense structure, because of very firm acidity and thick tannins. It needs lots of time to truly mellow and let any hidden complexity come out. Best after 2020.
Enticing scents of jasmine, citrus zest, pineapple and orchard fruit waft out of the glass. The fresh, linear, palate offers pear, lime and toasted hazelnut alongside bright acidity. A mineral note lifts the finish.
Vanilla, cedar and plum notes benefit from a dusting of cracked pepper in this medium-bodied dry red. The tannins are supple to the point of creaminess, and the finish warm and spicy. Drink now.
Delicious ripe berry and cherry flavors make this medium-bodied wine very lush and fruity. It does have moderate tannins for texture, but the richness of fruit just drenches the palate.
Just a shade off dry, this delicately sweet Riesling showers the palate in a cascade of fresh grapefruit, apple and lemon flavors. It's straightforward in style but refreshing and enjoyable, finishing with hints of bramble and earth. Drink now through 2019.
The addition of southern Oregon fruit to the Plowbuster amps up the candy-cherry flavors in a good way. It's forward and fruity, with additional details of citrus fruits, notably fresh oranges. Give it a little breathing time and it fills out nicely.
This wine comes from a single vineyard in the heart of the appellation. It is soft, just hinting at the lime acidity while focused on ripe yellow and green-plum fruits. This wine can develop further and will be at its best from 2017.
Pale in color, this ripe, perfumed wine is packed with red fruits. It is smooth, rich and only lightly textured with a tannic character. It conveys a nervy, mineral-textured aftertaste.
This Romanian Chardonnay has a perfumed nose of vanilla, white flowers and ripe banana. It is medium bodied with flavors of papaya, guava, mango and honeydew melon.
From parcels around the village of Maimbray, this wine is structured and tight. It has attractive fruit potential with plenty of lively acidity, surrounded by a strong mineral texture. The wine will be best from 2017.
Rich and spicy on the nose, this wine offers aromas of clove-laced cherry-pie filling. The mouthfeel is soft and the flavors are straightforward, with plush blackberry fruit, dark chocolate, licorice and a minty lift on the finish.
This opens with aromas suggesting spearmint, blackcurrant jam, toasted oak and roasted coffee bean. The aromas follow through to the evolved palate along with raisin and anise while raspy tannins clench the finish.
Aromas of blue flower, red berry, baking spice and toasted oak lead the nose. Made entirely with Sangiovese, the bright palate offers red cherry, raspberry and a hint of cinnamon alongside polished tannins.
Aromas of stewed prune, grilled pepper and roasted coffee bean join in this blend of 45% Merlot, 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 10% Sangiovese and 10% Cabernet Franc. The evolved palate shows date, vanilla and coconut. Drink sooner rather than later.
Blades of spearmint and cardamom are prominent on the nose of this wine, followed by a palate rich in pine and black cherry. Lithe with a dense ripeness, the finish is prickly in Asian spice.
Bright and straightforward, this opens with aromas of wild berry, blue flower and a whiff of eucalyptus. The easy drinking palate offers red cherry, star anise and a hint of chopped herb alongside polished tannins. Drink through 2017.
Quite green out of the gate, the aromas display notes of savory herbs, cedar and spice, with a reduced note that blows off. The plum and dark-fruit flavors are tart and elegant with dry tannins that don't seem to have fully ripened. It has potential at the dinner table but doesn't quite stand up on its own.
Heady with aromas of rose petals, this wine has a thin, light-bodied texture and tastes of black licorice and black cherry. With a surprising ripeness of fruit, it ends without tension or nuance.
This hearty red opens with aromas of sunbaked earth, leather, menthol and aromatic herb. The solid, one-dimensional palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry confiture, licorice and tobacco alongside bracing, close-grained tannins that leave an astringent finish.
Fresh aromas of honeysuckle lead to a palate where honey and vanilla come together atop ripe peach. Medium bodied, the texture is unctuous before finishing lean and light.
Forest floor, grilled porcini, charred earth and a whiff of leather lead the nose. The ripe palate offers dried black cherry, raspberry, clove, licorice and tobacco alongside chewy tannins. You'll also detect the warmth of alcohol on the close.
The somewhat prominent herb aromas don't seem varietal. The red-fruit flavors are considerably more germane, though the tannins come off as a bit sticky.
This wine is just over three-quarters Cabernet Sauvignon with the rest Cabernet Franc, Petit Verdot and Merlot. Aromas of black currant, woodspice and a violet top note are followed by plentiful black-fruit flavors supported by firm tannins that need time to stretch their legs.
Stony, minerally aromas of green apple and lemon are clean and focused. The palate follows that lead, showing minerally crispness along with firm but not cutting acidity. Apple, pear and peach flavors finish glassy and fresh.
This low-oaked wine is somewhat sour with a Lemonheads sensibility, light bodied and defined by minerality. The long-lasting finish is reminiscent of lemongrass and ginger.
This blend of 35% Kékfrankos, 34% Merlot, 27% Pinot Noir and 4% Cabernet Franc has aromas of tart cherry, pomegranate and black pepper. It is medium bodied with flavors of red plums and tart cherry.
This 100% Tamjanika from Serbia has gooseberry, mango and white flowers leading the nose. Following that, it is soft on entry with flavors of pronounced florality, white peach and yellow peach.
It's rare in Bordeaux to find a single-varietal wine, particularly made from Cabernet Franc.This impressive, spicy wine brings out all the perfumed character of the grape. It could do with some aging, so drink from 2017.
This blend of Mencía, the local Grand Noir and Merenzao opens with raisiny, spicy, slightly baked aromas that suggest nutmeg. The palate is drawing and hard, with earthy, slightly cooked flavors of cherry and kirsch that end with a dash of lemony oak.
This blend of 70% Blaufränkisch, 20% Pinot Noir and 10% Zweigelt has aromas of cranberry, pomegranate and dried cherry with flavors of blackberry and red raspberry. There's a pleasant touch of spicy black pepper in the finish.
Tropical and fleshy with upfront acidity, this wine has a full-bodied richness on the nose and overtone, despite a more light-bodied midpalate and finish. Along the way, lemony brightness mingles with a taste of yellow apple.
Earthy berry and leather aromas are fairly quiet. A more lively palate offers good weight and overall composition, while plum, raspberry and spice flavors finish with sweeter notes of raisin and baked berry.
Smoky oak and hickory aromas are gaseous early on but come with ripe notes of raisin and plum. This Tempranillo-led blend feels round and grabby, but a touch hollow. Flavors of cherry, plum and chocolate are lightly oaked and finish with grabby tannins and modest earthy complexity.
This pale pink rosé offers a reasonably complex array of aromas and flavors, ranging from anise to wet stone, and cracked pepper to wild strawberries. It's medium to full in body, with a finish that resonates of wet stone and spice. Drink now.
Aromas of waffles and corn flakes suggest maturity and complexity. This feels open and wide, with depth to the palate. Direct flavors of lime and tangerine finish more citric and minerally than the nose, with a lasting sense of freshness.
Earthy aromas of brick dust blend with spiced cherry and tomato notes. A chewy, solid palate registers as correct, while this tastes of ripe, candied berry fruits and chocolate. A long, warm, slightly oaky finish sends this on its way.
Stony and tropical in personality, this full-bodied white wine conjures up the taste and aroma of vanilla crème brûlée with a twist of lemon. The body is tense in acidity and the finish lean and mid-length.
This opens with aromas of stewed plum, leafy underbrush, scorched earth and leather. The palate offers dried black cherry, white pepper, clove and tobacco set against bracing, tightly knit tannins. Give the tannins another year or two to unwind then drink up to capture the remaining fruit.
Aromas of fragrant blue flower, menthol, spirits and plum cake lead the nose on this brawny wine. The hefty palate offers raisin, fig, vanilla, coconut and oak-driven spice alongside smooth, densely packed tannins and the warmth of alcohol. Showing the heat of the vintage, the fruit is starting to dry up so drink sooner rather than later.
While light in color, this rich wine is full of both fruit and tannin. It has real Pinot Noir cherry and strawberry flavors, lightened by cool acidity. The structure comes from the rich wood flavors and the complex tannins. Drink from 2015.
Still firm, this has dark chocolate and polished wood flavors, as well as dark plums and berries. With the tight acidity, it's a wine for aging, dark and concentrated for the future. Drink from 2018.
The wine has the typical Provence rosé color—a pale, elegant pink-grey. The flavors though are rich, full and powerful. It is packed with sweet ripe strawberries, very smooth and luscious.
With wood aging, the Sauvignon Blanc has developed vanilla flavors that are currently smothering the fruit. Ginger dominates, along with black pepper, giving a wine that has a tangy texture just hinting at juicy white fruits. Age until 2016.
From the best parcels in the La Mothe du Barry vineyard, this firm and structured wine shows an obvious wood-aging character. Dominated by Merlot, it is rich and dense, solid tannins balanced against juicy black fruits and fresh acidity. It needs to age; drink after 2016.
From a Merlot-dominated, 24-acre vineyard this is a strongly mineral wine, with young, dark tannins and a powerful structure. A more juicy, fruity side brings out black currants and berries. Together the structure and the fruit promise good aging. Drink from 2017.
Jammy raspberry and plum aromas are primary and fresh on the nose. This ripe, round wine is sure to be a party-pleaser. Solid cassis, berry and spice flavors finish pure, with ripeness and proper balance.
This opens with a classic Nebbiolo fragrance of red rose, blue flower, tilled earth and wild berry. Notes of truffle and vanilla accent a core of juicy, ripe black cherry flavors framed in robust tannins. Drink 2015–2021.
Power and polish come together in this full-bodied, firm-textured wine. A gutsy structure of acidity and tannin keeps the ample fruit flavors from becoming cloying. Hints of black pepper and clove add flavor complexity.
This bold, dry, firmly tannic wine will taste good now with rich foods, but could easily improve with aging through 2017. It is deeply colored, full bodied and a bit sandy in texture, yet that grip seems O.K. in this wine, balanced by the ripe fruit flavors.
The deep, dark color is hard to miss before you even taste the rich blackberry jam flavors and feel the firmly layered tannins. It is certainly an unusual red blend—51% Zinfandel, 43% Syrah and 6% Grenache—that's swinging for a home run. A good find for fans of the big and bold.
Subtle aromas of marzipan and cola yield to overriding prune and raisin scents on this extremely ripe, almost overripe blend. Soft and spongy on the palate, with berry and prune flavors, this shows smoke and toast notes on a low-pulse finish. Drink now.
One of a pair of wines from Palayson blending Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah. This, with its 80% Syrah and 20% Cabernet, is perfumed and spicy. With great violet aromas and firm spice and tannin, it does show power and alcohol. At the same time, it has the potential to round out into a smooth and full-bodied wine. Drink from 2017.
Young, tight and sharp-toned upon first sniff, this broadens out and opens up with an hour or two of airing. The pinpoint focus brings black raspberry, black cherry and light hints of tobacco into play. The 30% new oak seems just right, although there is some burn in the finish from the high alcohol.
Currently this wine is overpowered by very strong tannins, leaving fruit tones slightly hidden. Once the dark tannins and the bitter chocolate flavors have smoothed out, there will be a chance for the concentrated black fruit tones to shine through. Drink from 2017.
Syrah shows different aspects in cooler vintages such as 2011, which has brought out the leafy, herbal and peppery notes in full force. However this wine is ripe enough to offer plenty of good flavor, with brambly berry fruit that sings out for thin-crusted pizza.
Aromas suggest violet, black plum, crushed black cherry and wild strawberry. The intense fruit sensations carry over to the palate with a note of white pepper, while robust but fine tannins lend structure.
This 90% Syrah and 10% Grenache blend, named as an ode to the winemaker's butcher-ancestors, begins with scents of blueberry crème brûlée with a spearmint glaze. The flavors are comparably light, with tarter blueberry, some licorice on the midpalate and a tannic finish.
This opens with a blast of resiny oak, but airing calms things down, and ultimately the bouquet is round and full, with a mix of wood, vanilla and tropical fruit aromas. This is chalky, minerally and full in feel, accented by apple, pear, melon and spice flavors. Leftover oak and savory spice flavors dominate the finish.
A zesty, citric crispness balances with a soothing element of soft apple character. Fermented in stainless steel, it has a smooth texture and ripe fruit flavors. Balanced and approachable; drink now.
The inviting scents of melting butter on hot dinner rolls and vanilla-lemon custard ensure a rich wine, and the palate delivers with caramelized apples, dominant oak and more vanilla on the finish. It is balanced out with mustardy tartness and lemon rind acidity.
Big, bold and fruity, this dense wine has rich, red berry fruits and firm tannins its the core. While ripe and fruity, there is a hint of salty sea spray from a cool maritime influence. Drink now.
This is a firmly structured wine, solidly tannic and still developing. Big black-fruit flavors have set their mark on the texture while the dry core brings out the schist soil of the Douro vineyards, giving a tough sensation that needs to soften. Drink from 2016.
Ripe strawberry pie and cigar box aromas frame the nose on this top-end offering from Broken Earth. It's surprisingly light on the palate, with cherry pie and cranberry tartness leading the way alongside bright acidity and dainty tannins.
Aromas of graphite, rich berry fruit and leather dominate the nose. This Syrah has a jammy, yet layered mouthfeel, along with flavors of berry, toast, graphite and mint. Overall this is a deep, full-bodied wine that's quite toasty and oaky.
A sizable barrel imprint shows aromatically, the gist of which is caramel and toffee. Those aromas are followed by softly textured, intense flavors of baked apple and crème brûlée. The well-made finish imparts a touch of smoky oak.
Amidst cola and sassafras on the nose, there's a bit of rotting cherry funk and some compost pile aromas to this intriguing single-vineyard Syrah from the Los Alamos area. The little bit of cherry sweetness on the palate gets more serious with chopped herbs, tobacco and cedar.
Smooth and spicy, this is a rich wine, not quite dry and full-bodied. It is right up front with its white fruits, nutmeg and lychee. The acidity just creeps in at the end. Drink from 2016.
Made from the regional grape, Vranec, this wine is garnet in color with ruby streaks. Primary notes of mushroom and forest floor are lifted over shades of black cherry and plum. The palate shows pleasantly sour cherry and blackberry flavors, leading to a long lasting finish.
This is a wood-laden wine with a cool blackcurrant interior. The tannins and juicy fruit complement each other, giving fine acidity and a ripe character to this structured wine. Give it another year for the wood to integrate further and drink after 2015.
From a site composed of sandy Goldridge soil, this white is tremendously floral, showing off the Gewürztraminer-like flamboyance of the musqué clone. It's equally exotic on the palate, its dense, gravelly texture offset by vibrant acidity, needing a swirl or two in the glass to resolve.
Deep salmon in color, this pink sparkler from Norm Yost of Flying Goat offers nectarine, strawberry, mandarin zest and lees aromas on the nose. The palate is tangy, with hints of cranberry-orange juice and tangerine rind.
Richness is the hallmark of this full-bodied, luxuriously ripe and fruit-drenched Zinfandel blend. Blueberry, black cherry and blackberry jam aromas and flavors coat the palate, crowding out any oak-derrived accents that might be present. It comes off as pure and fruity deliciousness.
Baked red cherry, rose petal, star anise and cinnamon sauce show on the spice-laced nose of this bottling from Rhône grape specialist Jaffurs. More cherry and deep raspberry flavors pop on the palate, meeting with lilac and violet notes, all polished by more cinnamon spice.
A full, rounded wine, this vineyard designate exudes a richness of juicy black cherry with savory pepper and meat aromas. The robust tannic structure contributes additional girth and depth, accentuating the darker, more brooding elements of the whole.
Subtle dark-skinned berry, brown spice, leather and truffle scents gently lift out of the glass. The palate is polished and full-bodied palate, with licorice, clove and white pepper notes underscoring a juicy black cherry core. Firm, refined tannins provide structure. Drink 2019–2027.
This barrel selection is difficult to spot, because the word “estate” is just very lightly imprinted under the name Lenné. It's clearly a bigger juicier more tannic wine than its excellent sibling, with deep flavors of raspberry fruit, highlights of white pepper, and acids that push the flavors down through the palate.
This Lodi-based producer shows skill in handling Carneros-grown fruit, putting together a medium-bodied, deliciously earthy wine. It's leathery in texture and exuberant in cardamom, strawberry and burnt orange flavors.
Made entirely from Pinot Nero, this fragrant Metodo Classico offers tantalizing red berry, citrus, rose and cake spice scents. It's bright and elegantly sparkling, delivering juicy strawberry, tart cherry, tangerine and pastry cream flavors, framed by crisp acidity. A hint of cinnamon closes the quenching finish, calling for a second bottle.
Made of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 40% Syrah and 10% Teroldego, this boasts alluring ripe black currant and white pepper aromas, with a whiff of graphite. The firm palate offers juicy blackberry, black plum and tobacco notes, held together by polished tannins. Enjoy now–2025.
Sourced from several vineyards within the AVA, this shows lightly peppery Bing cherries with streaks of sassafras, cola and dark chocolate. The wine gains amplitude and weight as it breathes open. The finish brings flavors of cherry pie and a hint of butter.
Mellow inviting aromas of baked apple make for an attractive nose. The palate adds tart lemon freshness to these lovely and rounded apple flavors and thus creates a lovely contrast. This is dry and fruit driven, lemony and sleek.
Pencil shavings and leather aromas mark the entry of this robustly full-bodied wine. It has a pronounced forest floor character, while blackberry and black cherry flavors combine with licorice and dark chocolate, filling out the richer notes that interweave throughout the palate, leading into a long finish.
A microscopic amount of this wine was made, a sad reality given its lovely, creamy texture and seductive layerings of black raspberry, wild strawberry and vanilla. Full in both body and weight, it manages to coax the tannins to the background, where they play a supportive, complementary role.
This blend of 60% Sangiovese 25% Merlot and 15% Cabernet Sauvignon boasts enticing dark berry, menthol, new leather and dark spice notes. The taut palate doles out black cherry, cassis and licorice flavors, with a pleasant hint of game and fine-grained tannins. Drink 2019–2027.
Composed cherry, cassis, tobacco and oak aromas are elegant and on the spot. This is alert on the palate, with bold acidity and moderate tannins. Lightly herbal plum and cherry aromas are earthy and leafy but not green. A rugged-feeling herbal finish suggests Cabernet Franc, but this is 100% Cab Sauvignon.
Made of 60% Trebbiano and 40% Malvasia, this opens with acacia honey, ripe Annurca apple and hazelnut aromas that carry over to the vanilla-inflected palate. Don't dip your cookies in this one; it's more of a vino da meditazione.
Pretty aromas of rose and lavender mark the entry of this full-bodied, concentrated wine characterized by pomegranate, cranberry and a lightness of cardamom. Lengthy and dense, it opens in the glass, its tannins softened, with a length of earthiness that lingers on the finish.
This wine has a lovely rustic component that suggests forested earth and leaves. Juicy and explosive in cardamom and black cherry flavors, it offers a full-bodied experience of ripeness and concentration.
Faint hints of aromatic tart cherry try to burst through the closed nose. The fruit is present on the fresh palate with astonishing purity. There is real concentration and a richer, almost plush texture at the core despite the svelte nature of this wine. A real triumph that expresses pure aromatic red cherry with real elegance. This has beauty, charm, length and authenticity.
The nose is shy but subtly hints at citrus zest. The palate comes alive with subtle, fresh and very pure fruit: exquisitely accurate notions of mirabelle plum and beautifully aromatic tangerine. This is pure, streamlined and richly fruited, but done in a subtle grown-up way. A real joy to savor and drink. Finishes dry.
Plump, sweet and plush peach flavors fill nose and palate. This is medium sweet and intense with a wonderful vein of freshness that brightens the stone fruit with zesty tang and gives glimpses of grapefruit peel. There is a wonderful spiciness reminiscent of tangelo peel on the clean finish.
There almost is the slightest touch of lovely Poire William spirit on the nose. This is a lovely pear-scented, dry wine of immense fruitfulness. A homely earthiness counteracts this and makes for a concentrated, medium-dry but mellow palate. The finish is off dry, lasting and mouthfilling. There is something immensely satisfying about this.
The lift of heady aroma precedes the pear-fruited and herbal tisane-scented nose. The palate is gentle and has that same herbal softness. The fruit is rich with residual sweetness and characterized as ripe pear. This is balanced by zesty, pleasantly bitter citrus. The effect is of harmonious, gentle and generous balance. This mature Pinot Gris is now perfectly à point. Its flavors linger long and pleasantly.
A breezy zingy nose of lemon makes for a very refreshing proposition. The palate does not disappoint and continues in the same tart-but-ripe citrus fashion. The sharp freshness on the dry palate makes the citrus notes shine even more. This is utterly refreshing and totally moreish.
Right on the heels of their excellent 2014 version, this ups the ante still further. Young and forward, it's nonetheless well-balanced and ready for prime-time drinking. Bright raspberry and cherry fruit abounds, with the freshness and supporting acidity to age nicely for up to a decade.
Totally creamy notions of rose and carnation create a seductive nose. The palate joins in with ample fruit and sweetness. The residual sugar is finely balanced with lemony freshness: a very traditional, if not to say old-fashioned Gewürztraminer, but totally charming and rather delicious. Finishes medium sweet.
There's a light whiff of the chicken coop here, adding an unexpected note of earthiness to the fresh raspberry fruit. The flavors spread out horizontally across the palate, coating it completely and lingering with a finishing touch of mint chocolate cookie.
This Syrah, which blends 11% Counoise, is all about darkness, offering baking spice, blueberry, roast lamb, thyme, and espresso notes on the nose. It hits the palate with creamy power, its acidic backbone bolstering the pleasing tannic softness, and shows dark berry, milk chocolate, charred beef, and crushed peppercorn flavors.
Classic Eden Valley aromas of lemon-lime sherbet and wet stone mark the nose of this medium-bodied wine. That wet stone note carries through on the palate to yield a slightly chalky or crushed-stone texture, while the citrus fruits race through the long finish. Drink 2020–2030.
From sandy soils close to the Atlantic, this fresh, crisp wine almost has a salty character in its tangy texture and acidity. It is certainly crisp, light and very refreshing, with lemon and lime flavors and a bright, lively aftertaste. Drink now.
The nose is slow to emerge on this proprietary blend, with some berries, toasted cedar and hibiscus extract eventually arising. The palate blends smoked meats with blackberry juice, blueberries and a pine-like woodiness.
Made from Frappato, this opens with aromas of citrus and a yeasty note of bread crust. The palate offers apple, lemon zest, grapefruit and toast alongside vivacious bubbles and brisk acidity.
Crushed rock and bramble lend an earthy tone to this off-dry, but somewhat savory spätlese. It's refreshing and punchy, with a pleasantly bitter lemon-zest finish. Drink now.
This is plush and velvety in feel, with superripe notes of chocolate and black cherries on the palate. Finishes a bit warm; drink now–2016.
A Négrette-based wine, this is full of red berry flavors and that leathery, polished character that is typical of the grape. It has plenty of acidity as well as a tight, tannic character. The wine will always be tannic, so it is ready to drink now.
A light wine, this reflects the structure of the vintage. It has attractive red fruits, bright acidity and an already-integrated tannic character. All fruit, it will develop fast, so drink from 2016.
Subtle aromas of blue flowers and red berry lead the nose of this easy-drinking blend of 80% Merlot and 20% Sangiovese. The round, fruity palate doles out red cherries and red currants alongside bright acidity and soft tannins. It's made to be drunk young, so enjoy now.
Red plum, raspberry and dusty aromas are solid and clean. This has citric acidity that props up the palate. Generic flavors of citrus and nectarine finish with a distant note of red plum and red currant.
Aromas of burned rubber, roasted coffee bean, grilled mushroom and scorched soil lead the nose. A blend of Sangiovese, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, the diluted palate offers confectionary notes, mocha, espresso and blackberry extract alongside fleeting but astringent tannins.
Baked notes of raisin and raspberry blend with earthy, leathery, horsey scents on this jammy Rioja that is mildly tannic in feel. Short, simple, lightly baked flavors of plum and prune finish loamy and a bit lazy.
Despite this wine's very pale color, it shows ample weight and a silky texture on the palate. Peach and melon flavors pick up hints of berry and citrus on the finish.
Initial aromas of gasoline give way to briny scents of sauerkraut and cider. This is juicy on the palate, with a medium-intense bubble bead. Briny citrus, green-apple and green-herb flavors finish with length and notes of pickle brine, dust and white pepper.
Aromas of opulent white fruit, flowers, peach and melon are followed by creamy flavors of melon and fleshy white fruit. Ripe and rich on the palate, this exotic wine is balanced by lively acidity.
Almost neutral aromas of cantaloupe and nectarine are dusty on the nose. This Carmenère-based dry rosé is citric, juicy and tight on the palate, with grapefruit and other citrus flavors adding life. Orange and citrus pith notes control the finish.
Apple, pear and a hint of bath soap comprise the aromas on this light, friendly Sauv Blanc. Ripe white-grapefruit flavors are solid but short-lived.
This blend of Touriga Nacional and Cabernet Sauvignon is solid and ripe. It's packed with dry tannins that interplay with the herb and spice characters. A zip of acidity rings on the finish. Drink from 2017.
This firm and tannic wine shows the structure of the Malbec grape. It is also fruity with red currant and black plum-skin flavors that are supported by intense acidity. The wine, with its dry texture should be aged, so drink from 2016.
Salty in lemon-lime, the freshness on the nose develops into riper, more defined aspects of apricot, pear and quince, with a suggestion of honey in terms of taste and viscosity. The finale is rich in swirls of vanilla cream.
Mellow peach and nectarine aromas come with a dusting of talcum powder. On the palate, this is citric and lemony, while a jumble of orange and stone-fruit flavors finish clean and crisp. Overall this is fine but undistinguished.
This attractively crisp wine is full of fruit with just a touch of caramel. Light, bright and very dry, it finishes with intense acidity.
Ripe and rounded, this is a smooth wine given richness from the Gros Manseng in the blend. Citrus vies with pear and apricot, cut with intense acidity. It is fresh and textured with a steely character at the end. Wait to drink until the end of 2015.
From one of the largest private vineyards in France (2,300 acres), this wine epitomizes the light and fresh style that comes from Gascony in the hidden southwest of France. It is fruity, citrus-crisp with a touch of honey from the Gros Manseng in the blend. Drink now.
Dusty peach, nectarine and chewing gum aromas are clean and standard. A lively palate shows bright but controlled acidity and citrusy notes. Stone-fruit and red-plum flavors finish mild. Drink this year.
Aromas of struck match, seared lemon, roasted apples and a touch of butterscotch prove clean and not overpowering. This is a very straight-ahead Chardonnay, with lemon fruit, chalk and noticeable oak influence.
A fresh, lightly honeyed blend of Gros Manseng and Sauvignon Blanc, this is a fragrant, fruity wine with a twist of lemon and herbaceous acidity. It is light, touched by yellow fruits and with an orange tang at the end.
Syrah can be expressive even when slightly green, as it is here. Strawberry and raspberry fruit flavors are set amidst sharp, slightly chalky, citrusy acids. Best to drink this with grilled meats.
Aromas of underbrush, ripe black fruit, clove and cedar come together in this Sangiovese, Merlot and Syrah blend. The palate offers raisin, prune, mint and black pepper alongside lean, drying tannins. This is already drying out so drink soon.
Very light in color, this wine has a pungent nose that features white flowers, cold steel and lime juice. The palate is bright with racy acidity, showing lots of honeysuckle, some ripe green apples and hints of honeydew and kiwi.
Always attractive, this light and fruity wine is crisp with lemon acidity and tart green apples. There is an attractive tangy character that gives the wine extra freshness. Drink now.
Ripe blackberry notes dominate this wine's nose and palate. Their ripe, tart juiciness makes for an appetizing, fruit-driven palate. Smooth but pervaded by freshness, it's a vibrant, juicy blend full of refreshing, ripe fruit. Uncomplicated but delicious.
This blend of 72% Cabernet Franc and 28% Malbec is different from the debut 2014 vintage. It's a young stiff tannic wine, with tart cranberry fruit streaked with herbs and olives, all well-proportioned. Native yeast and neutral oak was used, with one-third done as a whole-cluster ferment.
A lovely, yeasty savor clings to more characteristic pear notes on the nose of this wine. The palate repeats this interplay, with flashes of watercress-like green herb and fresh pear skin flavors. It's refreshing, savory and dry, with a light and spritzy body.
This bulky bullish Malbec opens with big tarry aromas that go heavy on the oak. The palate is tannic like the clack-clack of heels on a tile floor. This tastes earthy, oaky and like blackberry, while the finish echoes with those same flavors. Drink through 2023.
Aromas of blue fruit, green herb, funk and savory notes lead to sweet, luscious blue-fruit and smoked-meat flavors that linger effortlessly on the finish. The sense of balance and length are rare for a wine at this price.
As gamy as foie gras, and just as rich, this 100% varietal wine fills the palate with baked plum, licorice and intense ripe fruit that borders on confected. Soft tannins and supportive oak give it structure and breadth.
Oregon is loaded with inexpensive Pinot Noirs these days, but very few are estate grown and carry the Willamette Valley AVA. Pretty and aromatic with engaging scents of cherries and cream, this has immediate appeal. Drink with pork, poultry, salmon and salads—this is your go-to, anytime bottle.
Dense and black in the glass, this bottling shows black currant, blueberry, dark chocolate and coffee scents. The palate is framed by hearty tannins that provide structure but don't get in the way, holding up milk chocolate, violet, and black cherry flavors. It finishes on a burnt fudge kick.
Sparkling reds may never be a strong domestic category, but some uniquely compelling examples have recently turned up. This one shows juicy and tart red cherry, plum, cola and shiitake scents, delivered with a yeasty touch. The foamy palate brings forth red cherry, earth and sourdough flavors.
One of this vintage's prettiest rosé wines from the Finger Lakes, this perfumed, full-bodied sip offers loads of cherry-blossom and raspberry exuberance. Ripe red-cherry and watermelon flavors are a few shades sweeter on the palate than most, but it's zesty and pert on the palate.
This round, approachable and likable wine blends 83% Cabernet Sauvignon with smaller amounts of Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Malbec. Bright cherry and plum notes meet generous leather and tobacco flavors, finding a nice balance between fruit and spice.
The nose of this bottling delivers all of the standard aromas associated with the grape: Meyer lemon, white flowers and the lightest touch of sour cream. That creamy element extends to the palate and is rounded out with stone fruit flavors, oak smoke and sea salt.
Berry and black-plum aromas are dense. This wine from silt (limo) soils feels a bit tannic and rugged. Flavors of plum and berry fruits are spicy, while the finish is savory tasting and long, with moderate complexity. Drink through 2021.
Proof that that a pink wine can be as serious as it is delicious, this copper-tinged wine from James MacPhail offers almond, cured meat, raspberry, melon and lemon peel flavors. No shrinking violet here; it's at once crisp, fleshy and fully expressive.
Bold and pungent, defined by passion fruit and green onion, this is a medium-bodied Sauvignon Blanc that packs a fruit-driven punch. White grapefruit fills in the gaps, finishing long and intense.
Louisa Lindquist produces this almost Pinot Noir-like Tempranillo from her cool climate site in the southern Edna Valley. It leads with red cherry and rust scents and shows more red cherry, iron and baking spice flavors on the palate, leaving a delicate and refreshing impression laced with rocky minerality.
Not your average rosé, this bottling based on Rhône varieties is a pleasure to drink. Light coral in color, it boasts subtle but fresh raspberry aromas that lead seamlessly to white peach and raspberry flavors. Vibrant acidity perks up its smooth mouthfeel, lending balance and elegance.
This bright, savory red opens with intense red cherry, tilled soil and Mediterranean brush aromas while the round, easy-drinking palate doles out juicy raspberry, strawberry jam and white pepper flavors. It's nicely balanced, with supple tannins and refreshing acidity. Enjoy soon.
Blackberry and chocolate flavors intertwine nicely in this soft, round and bright red from a tiny site in the appellation. Lightly spiced with clove and cedar, it strikes a balance between fruit and tension, making it a food-friendly option that won't overpower in the glass.
Fresh and lemony, this medium- to full-bodied wine starts out crisp and citrus-driven, growing a rounder and more substantial with each sip. The vibrant flavors and zingy acidity keep it lively through the finish.
Juicy, spicy and red-fruit dominated, this wine is broad-shouldered and moderately balanced, with a powerful hit of tannin on the finish. Sweet tobacco and vanilla flavors crescendo on the finish.
This vineyard designate from Yountville is packed with compact tannin and rich oak yet nicely balanced by crisp ranberry, cherry and clove flavors. Light black-pepper notes add seasoning.
Yeasty bready aromas are more smooth and leesy than fruity. This has a round palate that's full but not creamy due to firm acidity. Melon, peach and vanilla flavors finish yeasty and dry, with moderate complexity. This is made entirely from Pinot Noir.
Juicy black fruit, tobacco, tar and leather notes provide a muscular edge to this medium-bodied wine, which is shy on fruit flavor but bold with structure and complex, gravelly, dusty tannin.
This is a varietally pure and evocative medium-bodied Gewürztraminer. Ginger, white pepper and floral, leafy, spicy notes entwine around a core of melon and pear, then finish bright, dry and peppery.
Grippy with tannin and firm structure, this warm-vintage wine shows rich red cherry, currant and spicy clove flavors. Tinged with a touch of reduction, it gains depth and mouthfeel from its prominent oak.
Piercing aromas of char and creosote are like a laser pop surrounded by a note of blackberry. This is raw, tannic and hard on the palate. Chunky berry flavors are heavily oaked, while this is jammy in feel and tastes of blueberry on the finish. Drink through 2021.
Dense blackberry and cassis aromas show a hint of leather. This saturated jam-packed blend of Monastrell and several other red grapes tastes of chocolaty oak and baked plum and berries. A chunky finish doesn't show much evolution.
Toasted almond aromas lead the way in this elegant, harmonious offering. It's medium bodied and plump, easily supporting intriguing notes of smoke, pineapple, peach and citrus. Drink now–2020.
This opens with mostly toast and barrel char, but airing allows chocolate and spice aromas into play. This Malbec feels tight, stout and chewy, with fresh acidity and firm tannins. Black-fruit flavors are toasty all the way to a peppery spicy finish. Drink through 2021.
By nature Albariño doesn't last long, and this is well past its prime. Chunky, mealy, soft aromas announce a fleshy, low-pulse palate with mealy peach flavors and no finish.
This is a basic white wine with a few quirks. It smells floral and appley, and tastes quite dry and a bit sharp while carrying a candylike marshmallow note.
Baked, earthy, reedy aromas yield to a narrow, tannic, awkward body. Sweet, green flavors are candied and flat. Time has passed this by.
Light prune aromas signify a wine on the cusp. Astringent and rubbery in the mouth, this is raw in feel and tastes raisiny and like briary raspberry.
This is beautifully lilting in preciously defined aromas of rose petal and wild strawberry. From there, it's all subtlety and ethereal elegance. The wine is restrained, nurtured in a basket of nutmeg and graham cracker, as well as freshly packed mushroomy earth. This wine is a stunner right out of the glass, but is sure to continue its fine course through 2022–2025.
Gorgeous aromas of toasty oak, wood smoke, minerals and layered black fruits feed into a concentrated, thick palate that demands a knife and fork for dissection. Flavors of toast, vanilla bean, woodspice, bacon, mint and blackberry are lush. Give this beauty another couple of years, then drink through 2022.
With its strongly mineral-textured base, this is a complex, impressive wine. It has fruit weight with lychees, mangos and spiced pears along with acidity that gives the wine just the lift it needs. Power and style go hand-in-hand in this wine. Drink from 2019.
Separate from the other Original Vines bottling, this is part of the new single-vineyard series, and includes the famed South Block grapes. Lush and fragrant, full-bodied yet in the classic, elegant Eyrie tradition, this bursts with complexity. Bramble, cherries, strawberry preserves, coffee grounds and a hint of root beer come together in a deep, dense and thoroughly delicious wine.
Those who think they prefer anything but Chardonnay may be convinced otherwise with this wine. It is so powerfully evocative in crisply rendered Meyer lemon and tangerine notes, with aromas of fresh white flowers teasing provocatively on the nose. Seamless and seductively bright in acidity, it glides down the palate, hinting at a richness that never becomes overdone.
Sanguine and brooding in dense layers of juicy black fruit, leather and tobacco, this is classic Napa Valley Cabernet with an elegance at its core, that's also seamless, complex and age-worthy. From relatively cooler sites in Oak Knoll and Mount Veeder, and a cooler year too, this vintage sings for this producer, showing balance and power in equal measure.
A block selection, this most rare offering from DDO has rippingly good aromatics, intense and complex, with dusty, dreamy spices wrapped around a seamless mix of berry, earth and herbal components. The somewhat gritty texture gives it muscle and length, and the overall complexity suggests it can age for up to a quarter century. Drink now through 2035.
This reserve-level cuvée has been made since 2004, but in severely limited amounts. A mix of one-third new, one-third once-used and one-third neutral oak barrels aged the blend. Rich, tight and sappy, it shows generous ripe stone and tropical fruits, along with rich layers of butterscotch and toast. Drink now through 2025.
Layered fragrances suggest perfumed berry, orange zest, crushed wild flower, baking spice and tobacco. The smooth, full-bodied palate delivers a great depth of flavors that include creamy cherry, juicy raspberry, thyme, mint, cocoa and energizing mineral. It's superbly balanced with fresh acidity and velvety tannins. Drink 2015–2024.
This classic Chardonnay brims in lemon chiffon, stony minerality and luscious pear. The complex, soft, supple layers continue to surprise in the glass, teasing the palate with unexpected notes of nutmeg and Tahitian vanilla.
Keller's Grosses Gewächs offerings are hard to come by, even in Germany, but the von der Fels offers GG quality fruit at a markedly gentle price. Orchestral in complexity, it's dry, yet plump with stone fruit and a cashew-nut richness. Taut with acidity, it maintains a dancing, shimmering vitality throughout. It's stunning already, but sure to gain power and density from 2020 on.
This marks the debut of the Ramos Vineyard Chardonnay, inspired by a high-elevation site planted in 2001 by the late Bob Sessions and Jose Ramos, now director of vineyard operations. The wine paints a portrait of high-toned, elegant minerality accented by peach and lithe lemon. Capable of aging, it dances in acidity, with just a hint of caramel-vanilla on the finish. Made in tiny quantities, it's worth desperately seeking out.
Fresh-picked Bing cherry delights on the initial entry into this silky Pinot, sourced from a long-famous site in the heart of the Russian River. Medium-bodied and nicely structured, it offers ample concentration around a core of elegance, with a lingering finish of vibrant cherry. Enjoy through 2022.
This is a sweet wine, very ripe with a smooth, opulent texture. It's full of lychee and peach flavors, allowing just a corner for acidity and freshness. This is just beginning to develop into its impressive and full potential. Drink from 2018.
This is a sweet Gewurztraminer, almost a dessert style. The name comes from a title whose origins date back to the Dark Ages in Europe. The wine is rich, now fully matured, a wonderful medley of ripe fruits, honey and spice. Layers of flavors are interspersed with acidity that lifts the wine. It's opulent, delicious and ready to drink.
Aromas of rose petal, perfumed berry and exotic spice lead the nose. It's radiant, with wonderful intensity and elegance, delivering ripe red cherry, raspberry compote, mineral, licorice, baking spice and a hint of mint alongside a backbone of firm, fine-grained tannins and edgy acidity. Despite the full structure and youthful tension, it has a remarkably silky, supple texture. Drink 2018–2032.
This vineyard-designated wine reflects its sense of place remarkably well, offering tight dark cherry and blueberry around a strong character of wild earth, tea and herb. High in acidity and minerality, and yet powerfully understated, it's gorgeously drinkable now but will gain further complexity through 2022.
Full-bodied and exuberant in lush tannins, this black Shiraz is concentrated and rich in hearty leather, espresso and black tea yet buoyed by lively acidity and beautiful streaks of black and white pepper. Enjoy now or through 2021.
Silky on the palate, this offers exotic aromas of orange blossom and spicy cardamom. Juicy in fresh cherry, it combines structured elegance and plenty of power, amid a mouthwatering quality that's seductively delicious and yet just begs the question of how much more nuanced the flavors will be in time. Drink through 2022.
This hillside-grown wine is only vineyard-designated in special vintages. The nose is like a delicate pine sap, with elements of spearmint, sweet camphor and anise set against light raspberry juice. It's elegant but energetic, with soy sauce, clove and menthol highlighting the hibiscus and red and purple fruits.
Homer is the estate reserve, wood-tank fermented and blended from the winemaker's best barrels. Aromatic and toasty, it takes many hours to open fully, revealing a dense core of ripe cherry fruit wrapped in a mélange of tasty, toasty barrel flavors. Along with the gorgeous fruit comes a cavalcade of chocolate, caramel and buttered nuts. Drink now through 2020.
Even by past standards, this new vintage of Sineann's Old Vine Zin is spectacular, with ripe, jammy, concentrated fruit flavors of fig, black cherry and purple plum. The balance among the fruit, acidity, tannin and alcohol is spot-on, without blowing away the more subtle compexity of the old vine fruit.
While the nose is demure, the palate on this dainty auslese bursts of sweet yellow peaches and cherries. Luscious and clingy, it's irresistibly juicy, yet remarkably mineral and structured, with a nervous tension throughout. It's delicious now, yet should gain even more mineral complexity from 2020 and on.
The intriguing nose on this top-end Cabernet from Mike Mooney is deep but restrained, with smoked meats, espresso and juicy blackberries, cherries and olallieberries. The top of the palate is licorice and coffee, then riper blueberry fruit emerges, morphing toward a sage-like upswing on the finish. It's expertly layered and complex, yet approachable.
This corner of the Carmel Valley can make some awesome Pinot Noir, and in this wine's case, it presents an amazing bouquet that starts with spearmint and moves to olive tapenade, cooked strawberry and rhubarb, with some barnyard gaminess on the edges. The flavors are distinctive—tart berries to charred lamb to rosemary, thyme, clove and crushed herbs.
Tremendous concentration is evident right from the start. The deep color and intense black cherry and blackberry fruit start it off. Streaks of tar and red licorice power through a mouth-filling midpalate and into a finish with exceptional length and balance. Drink now through 2030.
This bold blend has aromas like charred oak barrels and saturated flavors suggesting blackberry, black pepper and clove. It is full bodied, thick in texture and moderately tannic. For those who like obvious oakiness, it will be a treat.
One of the more reliable, big-production brands in the market right now, this wine shows fresh white flowers, with just a dollop of vanilla butter and a touch of wet stone on the nose. There is decent verve to the evenly presented and light palate, with flavors of cooked apples and sea salt.
This opens with aromas of toast, oak and a whiff of coffee. The palate is still rather closed but eventually reveals raw cherry, anise, clove and ground pepper accompanied by bracing tannins and racy acidity. A note of dried sage closes the finish.
Riper notes of pink grapefruit and tangerine distinguish this dry Riesling from Georg Albrecht Schneider's other 2014 wines. The palate is cutting and crisp, showcasing tart limes and gooseberries against a blossomy finish. Drink now.
Stone fruit like apricot and white peach dominate on the nose of this wine that tastes slightly off dry, though no residual sugar content is listed. Hedonistic, it remains rich and creamy through the honey-laced finish.
Light, clear and aromatically reminiscent of pine, this smooth, soft wine offers spicy acidity around integrated tannins and oak, finishing with a length of cinnamon.
With the normally more northern Alvarinho in the blend, this wine has considerable freshness. That is mitigated by the wood aging that has broadened the wine and brought out tropical and yellow fruit flavors. The wine is ready to drink.
This wine conveys cola, root beer, dried strawberry and graphite aromas, with an intriguing twist of curry spice. It's rich on the palate with decent weight, showing Indian spice, pepper, star anise and tart yet juicy cranberry.
A bright and relatively light expression of the variety, this wine imparts more red berry than black, with seasonings of cinnamon and nutmeg. Soft, smooth and unfussy, it retains solid acidity from start to finish, with a taste of vanilla custard on the finish.
This ripe Chardonnay has a soft texture and only the lightest minerality. It is fresh, tangy with lemon-zest flavors and refreshing acidity. The aftertaste with a burst of crispness is particularly attractive.
Quite yellow in color, nearing orange, this oxidative-style wine shows quinine, walnuts and preserved lemons on the very concentrated, oily nose. The texture is sticky, with flavors of seared lemons and orange oil, yet it retains a lime-skin liveliness. It's quite an interesting bottling for fans of the style.
Ripe yellow apples and yellow pears meet with a tropical sense of guava and tuberose on this bottling from a vineyard near the intersection of Highways 101 and 154. The flavors are more tart, with green-apple flesh, light pear and a much more reserved touch of tropical fruit and flower.
Edelzwicker is an Alsatian term meaning noble blend, and is applied to any blend of white wine grapes. Here, it is Gewurztraminer, Pinot Gris and Riesling, capturing the floral aromatics and lightly oily mouthfeel of the former, along with the citrus and pear flavors from the latter two components. All in all it's an aromatic, floral, broadly flavorful and distinctive white wine.
Punchy and concentrated, this off-dry Riesling juxtaposes plush, peachy fruit against a backdrop of spine-tingling lemon acidity. Its uncomplicated forward style makes it quite quaffable.
Plum, graphite, menthol and exotic spice aromas jump out of the glass. The big, round palate delivers dried black cherry, mature blackberry, licorice and vanilla alongside chewy tannins.
This offers aromas of mature dark fruit, cured meat, cooking spice and tobacco. The extracted palate has dried black cherry, tobacco, anise and powdered sage alongside grainy tannins.
Zesty aromas of just-cut apple, lemon-lime soda and tuberose meet a stony quality on the nose of this popular wine from the Edna Valley producer. It's fresh and crisp on the palate, with ripe apples, kiwi and sea-salt flavors.
This ripe, fruity and structured wine is still young and the tannins need time to round out. However, it is already rich, with juicy red fruits and a core of fragrant acidity. The wine is dense and worth aging. Drink from 2017.
The wood aging still shows in this wine, although not too aggressively. It also has layers of spice, acidity and plenty of red berry fruits. Let it soften and drink from 2017.
Spicy berry, chocolate and bitter greens are in play, though slightly muted. The components smooth out and surf into a broad, easygoing finish. Drink up.
This appellation blend shows buttered toast with lemon marmalade on the nose, with a growing sense of tropicality. The palate is plush and smoky, with vanilla and cream flavors cut by just enough citrusy tang to keep it serious.
Jammy aromas of blackberry and cassis start out gaseous and muddled but find their way with airing. This feels wide and low on zest. Flavors of prune and stewed berry end with toasty oak but also heavy ripe prune and berry flavors. Drink now.
In this gold-colored wine, green-apple skin and nutmeg-ginger spice wrap around a full-bodied build, with a preponderance of ripe peach within its makeup too. Decadent, and nutty from the oak, it brings a fulsomeness of crème brûlée to the finish.
Stalky aromas of leathery berry fruits suggest animal and earth. This is raw, tannic and hard on the palate, with saucy berry flavors that fall off towards stalky and stewy. A dense tannic finish is structured but tastes herbal and stalky.
This ripe, stylish and attractively textured nonvintage has plenty of fruit, apples and citrus dominating. A mineral, tight acidity gives the wine a crisp, crunchy character.
Showing the heat of the vintage, this opens with aromas of stewed fruit, scorched earth and a whiff of nail varnish that carry over to the extracted palate along with fleshy black cherry. A green note of powdered sage closes the finish. Drink 2018–2026.
This medium-bodied red offers aromas of stewed black-skinned fruit, pressed blue flower, menthol and clove. On the forward, chewy palate, notes of licorice and ground pepper accent a black cherry core while fine-grained tannins provide the framework. Drink through 2019.
Exotic, warming spices like turmeric, saffron and coriander seem to accent this sweet-savory Riesling. The palate is citrusy and bright, calibrating sunny tangerines and orange peels against a backdrop of stark lemony acidity. The finish is brisk and clean.
Heady notes of gingerbread and molasses mix with concentrated pomegranate, raspberry and slate on this pleasant nose. The palate tightens around iron and graphite with a dense hibiscus and pomegranate fruit character.
Ripe blackberry, wild herb, menthol and a whiff of exotic spice lead the nose. The dense, full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, vanilla, toast and espresso alongside the warmth of alcohol and round tannins.
Comprised of multiple clones from five different vineyards, this exceptional value includes a rich cohesive core of purple fruits, amplified with barrel flavors of toasted coconut and bright spice. Everything is beautifully focused across the full palate, and even after being open for a full 24 hours, the wine tastes fresh and delicious.
This is a ripe and tropical wine, complex with wood aging. It is warm, intensely rich and piled with mango and pineapple flavors. The acidity and crispness are well behind this smooth, creamy wine. Drink from 2022.
Winemaker Spencer Daley taps a long respected vineyard to craft a solid Syrah that shows lavender, boysenberry, white pepper and dried fennel on the nose. There is a tarry quality to the palate, with black peppercorn, violet and charred beef notes accenting the underlying elderberry fruit. A solid structure ensures ageability.
Faint hints of aromatic tart cherry try to burst through the closed nose. The fruit is present on the fresh palate with astonishing purity. There is real concentration and a richer, almost plush texture at the core despite the svelte nature of this wine. A real triumph that expresses pure aromatic red cherry with real elegance. This has beauty, charm, length and authenticity.
The nose is shy but subtly hints at citrus zest. The palate comes alive with subtle, fresh and very pure fruit: exquisitely accurate notions of mirabelle plum and beautifully aromatic tangerine. This is pure, streamlined and richly fruited, but done in a subtle grown-up way. A real joy to savor and drink. Finishes dry.
Plump, sweet and plush peach flavors fill nose and palate. This is medium sweet and intense with a wonderful vein of freshness that brightens the stone fruit with zesty tang and gives glimpses of grapefruit peel. There is a wonderful spiciness reminiscent of tangelo peel on the clean finish.
There almost is the slightest touch of lovely Poire William spirit on the nose. This is a lovely pear-scented, dry wine of immense fruitfulness. A homely earthiness counteracts this and makes for a concentrated, medium-dry but mellow palate. The finish is off dry, lasting and mouthfilling. There is something immensely satisfying about this.
The lift of heady aroma precedes the pear-fruited and herbal tisane-scented nose. The palate is gentle and has that same herbal softness. The fruit is rich with residual sweetness and characterized as ripe pear. This is balanced by zesty, pleasantly bitter citrus. The effect is of harmonious, gentle and generous balance. This mature Pinot Gris is now perfectly à point. Its flavors linger long and pleasantly.
This Syrah, which blends 11% Counoise, is all about darkness, offering baking spice, blueberry, roast lamb, thyme, and espresso notes on the nose. It hits the palate with creamy power, its acidic backbone bolstering the pleasing tannic softness, and shows dark berry, milk chocolate, charred beef, and crushed peppercorn flavors.
A breezy zingy nose of lemon makes for a very refreshing proposition. The palate does not disappoint and continues in the same tart-but-ripe citrus fashion. The sharp freshness on the dry palate makes the citrus notes shine even more. This is utterly refreshing and totally moreish.
Right on the heels of their excellent 2014 version, this ups the ante still further. Young and forward, it's nonetheless well-balanced and ready for prime-time drinking. Bright raspberry and cherry fruit abounds, with the freshness and supporting acidity to age nicely for up to a decade.
Totally creamy notions of rose and carnation create a seductive nose. The palate joins in with ample fruit and sweetness. The residual sugar is finely balanced with lemony freshness: a very traditional, if not to say old-fashioned Gewürztraminer, but totally charming and rather delicious. Finishes medium sweet.
There's a light whiff of the chicken coop here, adding an unexpected note of earthiness to the fresh raspberry fruit. The flavors spread out horizontally across the palate, coating it completely and lingering with a finishing touch of mint chocolate cookie.
Lovely aromatics greet you from the moment the cork is pulled, showing a brambly blend of black cherry, cassis, cola and a whiff of dusty barnyard. The tannins are well structured with a black-tea finish. Drink now through 2025.
Tight and youthful, this wine unwinds slowly, in full command of its power and intensity. Compost, wild strawberry and a hit of citrus give life to the generous tannin and oak character, while savory black tea and cocoa flavors provide bite.
Smooth and medium-bodied, this is a rounded, lovely expression of rhubarb compote and black tea that's softly layered on the palate. Rose petals invite first before wild blueberry and nutmeg make their mark, supported by juicy acidity and a grippy length of tannin.
From a vineyard surrounded by the region's iconic estates, this study of Pommard and 667 clones used 60% whole cluster and 20% new oak to produce black raspberry, alpine strawberry, chipped slate, dewy bay leaf and vanilla aromas. Bright cranberry and pomegranate juice shows on the palate, which is lifted by a potpourri of eucalyptus and thyme, proving lively and refreshing.
Norm Yost is considered the sparkling pioneer of Santa Barbara County, and his bubblies continue to excel. This exhibits fresh lemon and lime zest notes, with wet cement, peach blossom and sourdough yeast on the nose. There is a grippy tension to the palate, where lemon, green apple and biscuity flavors intermingle.
Classic Eden Valley aromas of lemon-lime sherbet and wet stone mark the nose of this medium-bodied wine. That wet stone note carries through on the palate to yield a slightly chalky or crushed-stone texture, while the citrus fruits race through the long finish. Drink 2020–2030.
Made entirely from organically grown Sangiovese, this opens with red plum, new leather and underbrush aromas. The full-bodied palate delivers crushed raspberry, black cherry, pipe tobacco and a hint of black pepper, with polished tannins providing backbone. Drink through 2022.
Despite the rather high listed alcohol, this looks and feels elegant, even refined. The well-balanced barrel treatment puts highlights of toast and caramel around fruit flavors that sing of spicy plum cake.
Textural and spicy, this has a subtle mix of herb, salts, stem, leaf and wild berry flavors. It's fascinating and complex, with the sort of mystifying sex appeal that only Pinot Noir seems to be capable of. It spent 18 months in 30% new French oak to good effect.
From a range of vineyards including Cole and Rodgers Creek, this blend is thick and soft, highlighted in charcuterie, black licorice and tar aromas. Birch and leather add more savory personality, as the nose continues to suggest the aromatic landscape of an Italian deli. It's cofermented with a small percentage of Viognier.
This newly released still wine from sparkling specialist Gloria Ferrer is a successful first effort, blending bright cherry, strawberry and tangy blood orange flavors. With an earthy hint of compost and forest, it celebrates the variety in all its glory, upholding its acidity beneath a weight of richness.
Underbrush, grilled herb, new leather and spiced plum aromas lead the nose of this chewy Brunello. The palate doles out juicy black cherry, raspberry compote, licorice and pipe tobacco notes, framed by robust, fine-grained tannins. Despite the powerful structure and hefty alcohol, it has elegance. Drink 2019–2027.
The three guys in question are former professional football players who shared a love of wine, enough to launch this small-production project. It delivers juicy apple and pear in a lusciously creamy texture that shows a hint of stony minerality and nutmeg, the fruit coming back to the fore on the powerful finish.
In 2014 this vineyard designate has been further subdivided by clone. The Dijon 115 bottling brings a burst of fresh raspberry fruit, detailed and perfectly set against balancing acidity. It's still quite young, but has the polish and promise of further richness with additional bottle age. Drink 2020 through 2030.
Enticing floral, woodland berry, new leather and tilled soil aromas come together in this stunning red. Vibrant and elegant, the linear palate delivers wild cherry, red raspberry, cinnamon and clove notes, framed by firm, refined tannins and vibrant acidity. The youthful tension is pleasant, but give it time to develop even more complexity. Drink 2020–2033.
This is a well-integrated and beautifully layered wine from a wild, high-elevation vineyard site that provides vibrant acidity and jolts of forested earth. Baked plum and Asian spice form a happy alliance of flavor and intensity along a carpet of velvety texture.
Sexy and seductive, this melds cherry fruit with a touch of white pepper, blossoming into a full midpalate with length and power. There's a buttery softness, and a dash of caramel, making this ready to go for immediate enjoyment.
Strong wood aromas set the scene for a wine that has plenty of oak flavors but that also has ripe berry fruits and firm tannins. It needs time to develop and broaden out. Drink from 2016.
Very firm tannins dominate this potentially ripe, juicy wine. So while it is structured with some bitter chocolate flavors from extraction, it also has red berry fruits and fresh acidity at the end. It will mature quickly, so drink from 2016.
Aromas recall fragrant spring flowers, white tree fruit and mineral. The linear palate delivers ripe pear and juicy yellow apple while fragrant herbs and mineral add depth.
This steely Sauvignon opens with delicate aromas of cantaloupe and freshly cut grass. The linear palate delivers honeydew melon, pineapple and mineral notes. Crisp acidity leaves a clean, vibrant finish.
A mix of exotic fruits and herbaceous flavors adds both freshness and richness. A mineral texture gives a bite to the wine, allowing it to bring out lemon and grapefruit tastes. Drink at the end of 2014.
A bright, red cherry flavored wine that has fresh fruitiness and a light, if dry, structure. With Trincadeira and Aragonez (aka Tempranillo) dominant, it's a naturally rich with a velvety texture. Drink from 2015.
Whiffs of blackberry, violet and molasses are intoxicating in this intensely ripe, rich Spätburgunder. The palate is a bit heavy in pulpy black-fruit flavors, but a stream of cranberry acidity and a musky floral note add levity and grace. It finishes briskly, with just a murmur of tannin.
Tart lemon and lime notes are laced with wax and lanolin on this dry, slightly austere Riesling. Boldly textured, the palate is marked by fresh apple and pear flavors that are lifted by searing citrus acidity. It's steely, stark finish begs for pairing with creamy cheeses or pastas.
Dusty chalk and herbaceous green notes lend a savoriness to this dry, refreshing Riesling. It's an elegant, yet easy-drinking wine, with tart green apple flavors. Finishes on a slightly richer note, with hints of candlewax and white flowers.
Translucent red in color, this coastal Pinot is light and peppery on the nose, with saline and celery stalk scents along with baked plum and raspberry notes. Oak aging has left a buttery texture that's cut by acidity, while flavors of cherry and plum are supported by barrel notes and acid-based juiciness.
Although there was no wood aging, a toasty character gives the wine richness and smooth fruits. Apricot, peach and pear flavors have intensity and ripeness. Drink this wine now and until 2018.
An earthy wine, it still shows very youthful red fruit. It has weight, richness and a juicy character, but still seems rough around the edges. Drink this firm wine from 2016.
Fresh, fruity and juicy, this fruit-bomb of a wine has lively, fragrant red fruits, rich tannins and good acidity. Although it is rich, the fruit really shows. It's ready to drink now.
This, like the winery's other wines from this remote northern region, carries a soupy, stewy, leathery set of aromas. In the mouth, the acidity level is high. Rustic, earthy flavors of beef stew, leafy berry fruits and marinara sauce finish blunt, oaky and herbal.
The nose is earthy and savory, with brash mineral and lemon tones, but the palate on this dry Riesling is surprisingly pretty, with dashes of blossoms, tart stone fruits and fresh herbs. It's a bit demure in concentration, but an elegant, refreshing quaffer.
Made from fruit cultivated according to the principles of biodynamic viticulture, this leads with aromas of Spanish broom, yellow apples and light spice notes. The reserved palate offers tart green apple, pear, citrus and a hint of beeswax alongside crisp acidity.
Intense rose aromas recall the fragrance found in many cold creams. The floral sensation carries over to the palate, along with candied fruit and baked pineapple, uplifted by a mineral note. Pair it with ripened cheeses.
The vineyard is in the Santa Maria Valley, and the wine shows that area's crisp acidity, as well as long hangtime orange, Meyer lemon and golden mango fruit flavors. It's a rich, interesting wine to drink now.
This wine, from remote Basque vineyards in the Pyrénées mountains, is a blend of Petit and Gros Manseng and Petit Courbu. It is very aromatic, with fascinating smoky, white fruits and honeyed mix of flavors. There is a textured character, tangy as well as ripe. Drink now.
Velvety smooth and structured, with layers of blackberry and raspberry fruit, this Zin is made from old Lodi vines and encased in a coating of soft vanilla oak, its voluptuousness tempered by spice.
Big fruit is on display. Oak, apple and melon aromas provide for a lively, tropical, ripe-edged nose. Pulpy and grabby on the palate, it conveys pleasant, sweet flavors of pineapple, apple and walnut. There's a lot of power and energy but not much complexity and elegance.
The texture on this Pinot lacks silky sumptuousness. It's a bit brawny, but it's bone dry, with good acidity. The flavors are interesting, veering between raspberries to tarter cranberries, with earthiness. Try aging it until 2019 to see if it comes around.
Waxy lanolin and lemon-skin notes scent this dry, intensely linear Riesling. The palate is stark, with lime and lemon flavors accented by a stony mineral tone that lingers on the finish.
A smooth, fruity wine, it has a light layer of tannins to shape the red fruit flavors. It has great poise, fresh acidity, with a structure already well integrated into the fruitier element. Drink now.
A for effort, B for delivery on this 100% Cabernet. It shows those famous Howell Mountain tannins, and the flavors are concentrated in blackberries and black currants. An elusive minerality gives the mouthfeel a hard, stony resistance, beyond the tannins. It doesn't seem likely that the fruit will outlast the hardness, so drink up, after a long time in the decanter.
A fruity wine, it also has some structure. Ripe yellow and pineapple fruit flavors are laced with acidity, an apple skin texture and lemon zest. It feels rich and generous, a wine to age for a couple of years.
This elegant Pinot Bianco boasts typical varietal sensations of spring flowers, Alpine herbs and green apples. The savory but reserved palate offers juicy apples, citrus, a hint of mineral and lively acidity. Pair it with appetizers, light fish dishes or as sip as an apéritif. Omniwines, Astor Wines.
This big, ripe and spicy blend is dominated by juicy Alicante Bouschet. Full black fruits flavors and a dry core of solid tannins come with the lightest hint of wood aging. Mainly, the rich fruit shows strongly. Drink from 2015.
This Cab has a hot, alcoholic feeling, and the blackberry fruit veers all the way into chocolate-covered raisins. It tastes a bit too ripe, and doesn't seem likely to age well.
It opens with aromas of white spring flowers, Red Delicious apples, Bartlett pear and a hint of Mediterranean herbs. All carry over to the palate along with lemon. Vibrant acidity gives a crisp, refreshing finish.
Fresh smells of blue raspberry and black licorice characterize the nose. On the palate, it's heavily tannic, beginning with some cherry before becoming distractingly grippy. Hold until 2017.
Initial aromas are suggestive of turpentine and alcohol, but with time things improve. This is chunky and low on pulse; flavors of tomato, green herbs and red fruits are marginal, while the finish carries some burn and heat.
Firm and structured, this wine has strong wood-aging spice and ripe tannins. The fruit is suppressed by the toasty wood flavors, but it holds hints of black currant fruitiness for the future. Drink from 2015.
This wine is layered with wood that has softened the young fruitiness, adding spice and toast. The wine just keeps the right, juicy side of being too woody. It should be drunk now–2015.
This fruity wine is full of juicy red berries that are laced with acidity. Hints of wood aging stay in the background of this essentially fresh and bright wine.
Still young and dry, it has an austere, lean side that is still a way from being mature. Some juiciness gives a fresher potential. Drink from 2016.
Spice and smoky oak aromas blend with perfumed berry scents and candy in front of an astringent palate with plum, cherry and smoky aftertones. Dark, minty flavors on the finish are matched by hard, rubbery tannins. Time in bottle could be a benefit.
Roasted, earthy aromas of herbs and tomato play off red-berry scents. This wine is full in body and feel, with earthy, baked flavors of red plum and red currant. Acidity rises up on the finish, which otherwise shows vanilla oak and raw tannins.
Rich and caramel flavored, this is a rounded, sweet strawberry wine. It has plenty of fresh acidity to cut through the ripe texture, but it's not for an apéritif, more for food.
This is an appropriately simple Pinot, not particularly varietal, with a good amount of red fruit and oak.
There is an attractive rustic, old-fashioned feel to this wine. It has less fruit and more tarry tannins along with touches of old wood. There is a juicy final taste that keeps the wine refreshing as well.
This is a creamy textured wine, its round character pointed up by a citrus edge that brings out fruit and a mineral character. All these elements make for a balanced wine that's ready to drink.
Ginger, lemongrass and herbaceous aromas precede a zesty, citric palate with sharp acidity. This hints at sour lemon and grapefruit flavors while bringing in sweeter lime and melon notes. A cleansing, citric finish is tart to sour. 85% Torrontés and 15% Riesling.
Dark plum and berry aromas are given a wild side from juniper and pine notes. This feels grabby in the mouth, with prune and hickory flavors bringing a backing of smoke and clove. A toasty, hot finish feels muscular and rubbery.
While this wine is herbaceous, the attractive aspect lies in its lemon and orange zest flavors that are full and bright. It's crisp while deliciously fruity, ready to drink.
This shows its residual sugar without quite masking the very tart fruit. Flavors are simple and clean, hinting at barely ripe melon, sweetened with a bit of sugar.
An off-dry blend of Grolleau and Gamay, it's crisp and attractively fruity. Strawberries dominate this fresh and aromatic wine. It's a great rosé to drink now.
It still tastes very young with its aggressive acidity and herbaceous character. It's mineral, tight, with zesty lemon, lime and strong gooseberry flavors. It needs until 2015 to calm down.
Sweet, floral aromas of plum, candied berry and sugar beet are friendlier than the palate, which is a bit piercing and high in acidity. Cherry and tart plum flavors finish with choppy, bright acids and citric flavors.
This Pinot falls on the lean side of the fence, with firm acid and tannins and mature flavors reminiscent of old-style European wines. It has a slightly tawny color at the edge, a brick color in the middle, earthy-oaky aromas, and lean cranberry and cedar flavors.
From the starting gun, this is a raisiny, candied wine with complexity issues. The palate is tannic and not the least bit varied; basically it just sits there. Flavors of raisin and red licorice finish sweet, medicinal and with a note of green peppercorn. This is flavorful but blocky and strange.
Flowery in aroma, this dry, balanced wine offers ripe flavors of melon and a touch of barrel.The finishis fleshy but abbreviated.
Nutty aromas of almond skins and walnut aren't terribly fruity but show some mineral cut. The wine is punchy but standard in feel, with a mix of citrus and melon flavors. The finish tastes nutty and a bit briny.
Waxy, floral white-fruit aromas are tropical in style. This feels citrusy, with some pulpiness to the texture. Tangerine, orange and nectarine flavors finish tangy and citric, with one-dimensional juiciness.
Dusty plum, prune and leafy notes appear on a plump but somewhat flat nose. This is jammy and chunky in feel, with flavors of stewed berry fruits and herbal hints. Syrupy notes and a fig character add weight to an oaky finish.
Ripe blueberry, black plum and violet aromas are sweet and ripe. This is a chunky, flat feeling Tempranillo with candied, soft blackberry and other black-fruit flavors. A short, simple finish fits this heavy wine's overall profile.
This blend of Shiraz and Castelão is in a soft and ripe rosé style. There is just a touch of tannin from the Shiraz to give weight. The aftertaste is lightly sweet.
Orange marmalade and potpourri notes are accented by cocoa powder and toast tones. Silky tannins and even-keeled acids define the palate, which concludes with a reprise of the orange flavor.
A deliciously fruity wine whose dryness is masked by the ripe, exuberant red fruit flavors. Acidity keeps the wine fresh, crisp and bright. It's light, lively and ready to drink.
A wine that is meant to be drunk young, with its berry fruits and soft tannins. It's fruity and fresh, a ripe and spicy mouthful. Drink  over the next year.
Aromas of beeswax, acacia flower, honey and a waft of smoke drift out of the glass. The tangy, medium-bodied palate offers dried stone fruit, citrus zest and a note of honeyed mineral while bitter almond backs up the dry finish.
Snappy aromas of lettuce, tarragon and bell pepper are textbook Leyda. This feels plump and a touch oily, but acidic cut provides balance. Salty, briny citrus flavors finish similarly, with a mild pickled note popping up.
This full-bodied wine smells jammy and tastes superripe, like blackberry syrup, so it has a broad, soft texture and a mash-up of late-harvested fruit flavors that are very tasty.
A light cedary, floral aroma starts this full-bodied wine on an interesting note, and similar flavor complexity continues. It feels nicely astringent on the palate, as fine tannins and good acidity keep it lively.
Herbal black-plum flavors carry a strong side note of eucalyptus and spice. This feels crisp and fresh, but also tartaric. Flavors of herbal plum, black pepper and oak finish solid, with acidic push.
A darker shade of pink, this is rosé done in a rich style, but rather delicious throughout. Dark plum, baked cherry and ripe strawberry aromas meet with clove spice on the nose, and the palate offers tasty bubblegum and watermelon candy flavors. It's bold but balanced.
Red cherry, a touch of cinnamon, purple flowers and baked vanilla cookies show on the nose of this wine. Black cherry and gingerbread spice consume the palate, which also offers a rocky minerality and a vanilla foam finish.
Iron, roasted pork, pencil lead and a smoked-raspberry character show on the nose of this appellation blend. The palate is very dainty and light, with smoky barrel influence, cranberry fruit, crushed herbs and anise spice.
Big tannin overpowers this full-bodied, concentrated wine with lurking acidity, built around complex layers of drying oak, cedar, currant and cola. Soft on the palate, it presents a powerful interpretation of the variety, while retaining its essence.
A tart austere red wine blended with 13% Merlot, 4% Cabernet Franc, 4% Petit Verdot and 3% Malbec, there's a tangy element of currant and pomegranate that provides freshness here if not complexity. A food friendly wine, its texture is just the right kind of leathery.
One of the few bubbling Pinot Grigios available in California, there's enough promise here to wonder why not more. Pink grapefruit, ripe peach, kiwi and Gravenstein apple aromas show on the nose, while the palate picks up light apple cider, lime juice and jasmine flavors.
Very strong grassy notes met with juicy passion fruit and cut tennis ball elements on the nose of this distinctive bottling from an extremely coastal vineyard. There is a nice tactile acidity and minerality to the palate, which is clean and crisp while dominated by the grassy flavors.
Quite restrained on the nose, this nicely priced bottling slowly unleashes sea salt, apple peel, key lime pith and chalk aromas. It's tightly wound on the palate with lemon skin and pear skin tartness, proving very racy in style.
Made with 70% Inzolia and 30% Chardonnay, this opens with scents of white flower, Mediterranean herb and a hint of orchard fruit. The linear palate offers lime and yellow apple accompanied by bright acidity.
Intense aromas of white flower, honeydew melon and tomato vine lead the nose while the bright, juicy palate offers pink grapefruit, kiwi and unripe peach. A briny note closes finish.
Aromatic red berries signal tart pleasure: redcurrant and raspberry. The very easy and smooth body fully plays into that with light-bodied charm. Drink while the aromas still sing.
Aromas of citrus zest, orchard fruit and a hint of toasted walnut lead the nose. The palate includes mature peach, pear and mineral alongside bright acidity. A hint of hazelnut signals the close.
Leathery, herbal aromas of black fruits, horsehide and murky earth lead to a medium-bodied palate with wiry acidity. Saucy, herbal tomato and plum flavors are typical of the variety, while the finish maintains the wine's true-to-form flavors.
This 100% Feteasca Neagra has aromas of fresh strawberry and red plum. It is soft on entry into the mouth and has flavors of dried cherries, cloves and prunes.
Heady aromas of white wild flower, chopped herb and a whiff of honeydew melon lead the nose. The enjoyable palate offers ripe lemon and juicy nectarine that carry through to the tangy finish.
In this generous interpretation of Nuits Saint-Georges, ripe berry fruits burst through the typical dry tannins. It has plenty of red-fruit flavors, a generous texture and structure. Drink this already attractive wine from 2018.
This wine is fresh, crisp with acidity and an attractive zingy character. It has a lift and brightness along with hints of yellow fruits and a touch of spice.
This is an enjoyable, easy-drinking white, fermented equally in stainless steel and French oak barrels. Rounded and full-bodied in style, it's well-composed in anise and plenty of green apple dripped in honey.
This is a dark, fragrant wine, showing a burst of black cherry and cassis. It's forward and buoyant, juicy and clean, with a youthful grapy character. It should drink best now through 2018.
Notions of baked Mirabelle plums lend their full-fruited aspect to nose and palate. Their softness is countered by fresh, lively crispness. This is friendly, refreshing and fruit-driven.
Despite the low alcohol, this is completely dry. Crisp and steely, with fruit rather than flower flavors, it's accented with mineral and a whiff of petrol. The finish stops short, but more time in bottle may fix that.
Tasted barely six months past fermentation, this is as fresh as spring strawberries. It's juicy and forward, delicious and rather substantial at near 14% alcohol. Enjoy this chilled with cold salads and picnic fare.
It's a treat to taste this varietal that is so popular in Italy, but rarely bottled by California wineries. This is a big-impact wine that is not overly full bodied. It is dark colored, full of dark-fruit flavors like blackberry and black fig, and moderately tannic but also fresh and lively.
Bright and refreshing, this offers aromas of orchard fruit and citrus. The lively palate delivers white peach, mature pear and nectarine alongside crisp acidity while a mineral note signals the close.
Inviting scents of hay and chamomile lead the nose while the succulent palate offers juicy lemon, mature apple, peach and Mediterranean herb. Bright acidity lifts the finish.
An array of damp, dank herbs shows on the nose of this bottling from the Fairbairn Vineyard, with aromas of oregano, thyme, chaparral and moist earth. The palate is relatively light in body, showing flavors of oregano-crusted pork roast and a woody character.
This aromatic, herbal wine is crisp and lively, with bright acidity and green fruits. Citrus and gooseberry flavors bring out an even fresher side. It finishes light and fruity. Drink now.
Intensely herbal, this is a crisp, cool wine. Layers of citrus, grapefruit and gooseberry mingle with grassy, herbal flavors. Green, fresh and drinkable now, this is a fine apéritif style.
This wine is soft, lightly fruity and refreshing. Apple and ripe pear flavors contrast with the textured acidity. It's a balanced wine, full of fruitiness and ready to drink now.
From vines nearly 30 years in age, this is Pinard's immediately attractive, drink-now wine. Fresh lemon and grapefruit flavors are lightly herbal in character. Juicy, lively and crisp, it's ready to drink.
A majority varietal with 10% Merlot, 8% Cabernet Franc, 3% Malbec and 2% Petit Verdot, this wine offers dusty tar, tobacco and chocolate around more succulent flavors of blackberry and black cherry. It finishes lean.
Oak, coconut, toasted nut, porcini mushroom, steeped prune and dried sage aromas lead the nose on this robust wine. The warm, one-dimensional palate offers dried berry, raisin, vanilla, anise, oak-driven spice and mocha framed in velvety tannins. The heat of alcohol marks the close.
This wine starts out strongly reduced, making it a challenge to get at the pink grapefruit, lychee and spice aromas. The flavors drink just off dry, with high wire acidity. There are good things going on but the reduction is a challenge to overcome.
Named after the matriarch of the Riboli wine family, who founded what may be the first tasting room in California, this shows light yellow fruits on the nose. The palate combines lemon and apple with a slight hue of brown spice, offering plump fruit with a tang.
An estate wine blended with 6% Sémillon, this was aged in 50% neutral oak. The texture provides the illusion of a bigger body and more power than it should have, given the alcohol level. It finishes in a twist of fresh tangerine.
The aromas explore this variety's savory side, with notes of green herbs and dill followed by vanilla, char, burnt coffee and green wood. The palate shows flavors of char and game, with the tannins seeming gritty.
Young and firm to the point of tightness, this suggests a light mix of celery, cucumber, lemon and apple, with a whiff of coconut. There's a woody—not toasty—scent underlying it and carrying through on the palate.
Cedar, herb, mushroom and woodspice aromas are followed by tart cranberry and flavors that show some astringency. The wood gets out front.
Deep straw to the eye, this wine has a bouquet of lemon curd and apricot. Slightly savory flavors of pear, apricot, lavender and thyme are joined in the finish by the faintest hint of sweetness and a floral note.
This deep red-violet colored Bordeaux-style blend offers a bouquet of elderberry and black currant. Strong tannins stay in the forefront amidst cooked fruit flavors of elderberry, cassis and blueberry with hints of mint and anisette that linger into the cool, syrupy finish.
Medium-straw colored in the glass, this has a soft bouquet of guava and pineapple. It is slightly stiff at first, but tropical fruit flavors of guava and passion fruit with touches of lemon curd quickly wash across the palate. The citrus-laced finish offers long-lasting floral notes.
A bit thinner aromatically than some other Cabs, this shows black cherry, tobacco ash, soft cedar and rose petals on the nose. The palate is also relatively light, but offers complex black pepper, thyme, red cherry, turned earth and dried-mint flavors.
Charred earth, toasted hazelnut, grilled porcini and funky notes of game and farmyard emerge in the glass. The aromas carry over to the robust palate, along with leather, dried black cherry, oak, anise and espresso alongside a tannic backbone. The heat of evident alcohol dominates the finish.
Made with 100% Sangiovese, this straightforward red has subdued aromas of red berry, toasted oak and a whiff of blue flower. On the tart, tangy palate, zesty acidity and round tannins underscore sour cherry, fresh raspberry and white pepper.
This unusual five-grape blend includes Chardonnay, Sémillon, Sauvignon Blanc, Viognier and Muscat. It maintains a sense of focus, with the grassy, herbal character of Sauv Blanc and Sémillon commanding most of the attention. It's stiff, woody (rather than oaky) and herbal. Try it with fresh goat cheese.
The first sniff is yeasty and beery, a nod to the wine's youth. With ample air it brings in light hints of citrus blossom, lemon verbena and mint. Flavors of lemon and pineapple come next, and the small percentage that was barrel fermented helps to round off the acids.
The chef returns to wine in this blend of mostly Chardonnay with 4% Viognier. A smooth, round and ripely agreeable quaff, it's thick in oak with a taste of vanilla.
Leathery plum and berry aromas come with a touch of char. This blend of Shiraz and Tempranillo feels round and solid. Familiar flavors of berry fruits and cherry are a bit spicy, while the finish tastes of black fruits and feels right.
Apple and peach aromas are basic but clean and fresh. So is the palate on this Chardonnay-Sauvignon Blanc blend. Flavors of nectarine and apple don't stray far from basic, while green apple and citrus flavors are propped up on the finish by racy acidity.
Aromas of freshly cut pear, apple and almond butter mix with assorted spices. The flavors are elegant in style, pulling up toward the finish. It provides easy drinking enjoyment.
Made at a somewhat approachable price point, this blend of coastal vineyard sites holds back on fruit and texture. It provides a tightly closed and still youthful touch of savory herb and tea, finishing lean.
Aromas of toasted oak, roasted coffee bean and dried black-skinned fruit lead the nose. The firm, astringent palate offers raisin, dried black cherry and star anise alongside close-grained tannins. Drink soon to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Aromas of wild red berry, pressed violet and a whiff of baking spice flow through this simple, easygoing wine. On the easy-drinking palate, round tannins support mature black cherry, cinnamon and a hint of mocha. Drink through 2017.
Aromas of underbrush, toasted oak, coffee and a whiff of roasted herb emerge on this. The brawny palate displays dried black cherry, hazelnut, anise and vanilla alongside astringent tannins that leave a tongue-drying finish. A green note of powdered sage marks the close.
Fresh, fruity cranberry and raspberry flavors penetrate through this vivaciously brisk blend of Cabernet Franc and Lemberger. It's fairly straightforward in style, but hints of herb and bramble lend a savory complexity to the midpalate. The finish is moderately long, marked by a spray of fine tannins.
This luminous, young Nebbiolo leads with aromas of rose petal, blue flower, eucalyptus, graphite and alpine herb. The fresh palate offers ripe Morello cherry, white pepper, mineral and a balsamic note alongside lithe tannins. Balanced and fresh, it closes on a licorice note.
Aromas of black cherry, toffee and black pepper set the scene for flavors of cherry, espresso bean, violet and flint. Velvety tannins structure a silky palate, and a vein of brightness shines through the long finish.
This smooth and rich wine shows deliciously ripe and fruity character. Weighty berry fruits support ripe tannins, and give way to a pleasant balance of fruit and acidity. Drink now through 2018.
This wine is garnet in color, with aromas of cherry, vanilla, red plum and cassis. Flavors of tart cherry, red raspberry and blackberry drive the palate and lead to a lingering finish.
This is a soft wine, smoothly textured and rich, with concentrated and ripe black fruit tones. While there is a dry core, it is the generosity of the surrounding fruit that makes this an eminently drinkable wine.
Nearly 100% Merlot with just a pinch of Cabernet Sauvignon blended in, it brings an assortment of red fruit notes along with plum, milk chocolate and coffee. The barrel flavors play a big part in the show with the tannins giving a lightly chalky feel.
Elegant aromas suggest tar, prune, cherry preserves and mint. It's soft on the mouth with unfolding tannins, featuring flavors of Italian herbs and cedar. It's a very austere and extremely dry wine, with very little overt fruit.
From this appellation's tremendously rocky soils come aromas of golden pear and buttered toast. The palate is dominated by racy tones of lemon peel and fresh-cut yellow flowers, but rounded out with a slight vanilla buttercream on the finish.
Winemaker Nick Goldschmidt is behind this wine, an aromatic study in campfire and toasty smoke amid a palate of back-of-the-mouth tannins. Dense and soft, the wine needs more time in the bottle to settle. It aged in French oak, 70% of it new, for 20 months.
This blend of Merlot and Tempranillo, with touches of Petit Verdot and Cabernet Sauvignon, opens with notes of warm cherry pie, black tobacco and cedar. Fresh boysenberry starts the palate, with mouthwatering spice in the midpalate and mocha on the finish.
Pull's well-priced portfolio delivers consistent quality, and this 54% Syrah, 27% Petite Sirah, 16% Grenache, and 3% Viognier blend is appealing, with black cherry aromas lingering amidst rose petals and mint. Blackberry juice wins the palate, with a touch of black licorice and ample yet easygoing tannins.
An aromatically appealing wine with notes of star fruit, pear, citrus and mineral. It drinks just a hair off dry, with rich fruit flavors and a lingering finish that keep you coming back for more.
Packed with wood and fruit, this rich wine needs time. A juicy blend of 85% Merlot and 15% Cabernet Sauvignon, it's full of attractive acidity and blackberry fruits. The tannins do need to soften and round out, so drink from 2017.
Flavors of tart cherry, thyme, smoked meat and menthol are held together by slightly grippy tannins, with a silky and bright finish.
Almost entirely fermented in stainless steel, it has unquestionable acidity captured in the bottle, without a sacrifice of ripe, juicy peach fruit. Lemongrass lingers on the tail end.
Intense aromas of freshly picked mint and dried herb drive the bouquet. On the palate there are flavors of black currant, black plum and tobacco leaf. The finish is long with a pleasant level of acidity.
A Syrah-esque bit of smoke and cured meat wafts from this wine aromatically, which follows through on the palate. Bright cherry and currant fruit then intermix with a restrained sense of clove spice, the Stagecoach Cab blended with Malbec and Petit Verdot, aged in 60% new French oak.
Aromatically appealing in notes of sarsaparilla, barrel spice and cherry. This full-bodied Pinot brings pomegranate and plum flavors to the palate, showing some dryness from the tannins.
This ripe, sweet-fruited wine is soft and quite mature. Red fruits have developed into a smooth and round texture with a delicate mushroom character. Drink now.
Although the nose isn't very expressive, the palate offers up ripe sour cherry, black pepper, sage and licorice alongside bracing tannins. Young and aggressive, this needs time. Drink after 2018.
This blend of Tempranillo, Syrah and other varieties is medium to full bodied, nicely tannic and firm in texture. Bold in flavor, it tastes complete and well crafted without being too showy. The balance is dry and the flavors resemble cranberry and ripe cherry.
At first closed, this eventually opens up in the glass to reveal exotic spice, blue flower, espresso and dried blackberry. The palate is a bit shy but shows black cherry, mocha and vanilla alongside drying tannins.
Broad, ripe berry aromas are dark and full on the nose. The palate is lively, with a shot of bracing acidity. Flavors of dark fruit, grilled meat, herb and salt finish briny, with a final wave of hard tannins. Drink through 2016.
This well-balanced red made from a variety used in Port wines grows on you with each sip. It has bright cherry and raspberry aromas, exotic floral flavors, good acidity, a smooth texture and medium body. It should be versatile with food.
Aromas of licorice, black cherry and a whiff of cooking spices lead the nose. The palate delivers dark cherry, ripe raspberry, white pepper, and notes of anisette and sage alongside bracing tannins.
A good example of South American Albariño, this wine shows aromas of leesy buttercup, acacia, vanilla, grassy citrus and apple aromas on the nose. The energetic palate comes on strong with apricot and nectarine flavors which move to nutty and leesy tones on the finish.
Subtle aromas include crushed flower, forest floor, graphite, black berry and a note of menthol. The ripe palate offers red cherry-berry and a hint of cinnamon alongside muted but drying tannins. Drink through 2021.
This firmly tannic blend of 50-50 Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon is still developing. While its juicy black currant fruits are right there, it needs another few years to soften the dry, hard-edged tannins and minerality. The juicy acidity at the end promises the wait will be worth it.
This generous and full-bodied wine is full of juicy red berry fruits, ripe tannins and just enough structure to support its opulent character. Wood aging gives a fine-grained texture that will allow it to age. Drink from 2016.
Firm and solidly structured, this is a dense wine. It has plenty of tannins and a touch of bitter chocolate, but they are supported by the ripe fruit and fresh black currant flavors. It's a wine for aging, drink from 2017.
Edgy cherry and currant aromas are more crisp than rich, while this old-vines Rioja also shows an aromatic note of dusty earth. High acidity tethered to a medium body creates some midpalate emptiness, while plum, currant and berry flavors are fresh on a pointy finish. Drink through 2024.
Ripe berry fruit and gritty oak aromas lead to a full-bodied blocky palate with grating tannins. This is a heavily oaked blend of Syrah, Tempranillo and Merlot. Flavors of blackberry, vanilla and wood spice finish with barrel char and depth. Drink through 2023.
This wine comes from the best 50-year-old “land of angels” parcels on Xavier and Odile Thieblin's romantically-named estate. It is dry with attractive orange zest and red-berry flavors. The Mourvèdre in the blend shows in the perfumed character of this stylish wine. Drink now.
This is crisp and lemony, with intense acidity. It has a spicy note that gives the wine an exotic character, enhanced by lychee fruit. The wine is full in the mouth, really fruity and crisp at the end.
This blend of 80% Grenache and 20% Cinsault comes from a 100-acre property in the center of the Côtes de Provence. The wine is ripe and with great fruit. There is a touch of spice and pepper that gives the wine an attractive edge. It is all about delicious red-currant and orange-zest fruit. Drink now.
The vines in the prestigious Sainte-Victoire appellation produce a ripe wine, lightly structured and with nervy energy. Apricots and red berries give plenty of richness to this attractive wine. Drink now.
Intense yellow stone fruit, grapefruit, smoky flint and nutmeg aromas jump out of the glass. The bright, generous palate doles out juicy apricot, mature peach and orange zest notes, framed by tangy acidity. A mineral note lifts the lingering finish.
Yellow apple and yellow pear aromas follow through to the round, juicy palate, along with citrus and Alpine herb notes. Fresh acidity lifts the rich flavors while a flinty mineral note backs up the lingering finish.
Green Valley vineyards figure prominently in this appellation wine, providing delicate, layered acidity and crisp, savory, succulent fruit. Cranberry, cherry and black tea flavors ripple through its bright texture, accented with clove, cola and cedar.
This blend of Sémillon and Rolle is ripe and fat. It has a rich character that is crispened by a herbal edge. Now that it is mature, it's well balanced while keeping plenty of fruit. There is a nutty soft aftertaste. Drink now.
From this showplace estate close to Saint-Tropez, this attractive wine brings out a warm and sunny character. It is smooth with just a light tang of clementines that is balanced with the riper raspberry fruit. Drink now.
This is a finely balanced wine. It is dry with its red fruit right to the fore. The acidity and the tangy texture both promise some further aging. This is a great food-style rosé that will be good to drink from late 2017.
Creamy, herbal freshness shines in this wine, recalling yeast and sage, lemon zest and aloe vera. The palate is sprightly and fresh, delivering loads of lemon and lime flavor in its slender, easy frame. A slight spritz makes it even more refreshing.
With an aroma reminiscent of peardrop and a zesty, easy and fresh palate, this wine is light on its feet and almost weightless. A whisper of zesty vigor on the finish makes it clean and refreshing.
Bright, round and delicious, this has exotic fruit, white flower and cantaloupe aromas that follow through to the lively palate, along with honeydew melon fruit. It has noteworthy freshness for the vintage.
A restrained nose leads to a cherry-fruited, sprightly, light palate. Ample freshness and peppery spice give this ease and poise, with fragrant forest fruit and cherry notes. A lovely summer red that can even be served slightly chilled.
Peardrop scents accent the yeasty nose of this wine. The palate is full of generous, fruity yellow and green pear, set against a backdrop of zesty-fresh grapefruit peel. Salty savor provides depth to its otherwise light, dry and refreshing body.
Candied macadamia nut, ripe pear and toasted marshmallow aromas may sound over the top, but they're all in balance in this bottling. The palate is tangy with mandarin and lemon skin accents that give depth to the toasted almond and beeswax flavors.
Roasted meat, wet slate, dried Concord grape and wet cement notes show on the somewhat gamy nose of this blend of 37% Mourvèdre, 23% Grenache, 23% Syrah, 12% Cinsault and 5% Counoise. The texture is lively and grippy, supporting prominent wood and elderberry flavors.
This is a very solid wine for its price, with rocky mineral, dried fennel and herbal aromas on the nose. It really shines on the rich and juicy palate, where smoked beef, oregano, marjoram and thyme notes back up the blackberry fruit. Complex and tasty.
Fresh but ripe cherry notes shine on nose and palate of this wine. The body is fluid and has a pleasant weight: neither light nor heavy, with just enough density and freshness to fill the palate with its exuberant cherry fruit.
Textbook Duero Valley aromas of licorice root, cola, peppery spice, blackberry and vanilla are complete and cover all the bases. While this is medium to full in body and weight, it is racy due to pulsing acidity. Flavors of toasty oak and vanilla are compatible with tart berry and plum fruit, while this is lithe and bolstered by acidity on the finish. Drink through 2027.
This compelling white has alluring ripe yellow stone fruit, hay and spring flower aromas. Round and bright, the savory palate doles out succulent grapefruit, yellow peach and dried herb flavors while a mineral touch closes the finish.
Compelling warm berry compote and orange rind aromas mark the nose of this stylishly labeled bottling, with dried fennel, cola and dill accents. The palate is as hearty as expected, with ripe blackberry, vanilla, rose petal and ginger snap flavors.
This blend of Nero d'Avola and Frappato opens with blackberry, red rose and baking spice aromas. The vibrant palate delivers succulent Marasca cherry, raspberry jam, anise and white pepper flavors, set against bright acidity and polished tannins. Enjoy through 2020.
Creamy butter and vanilla aromas suggest richness in this vineyard-designated wine, and its body and texture are equally full. Spicy oak and nutmeg flavors accent its dense, ripe apple and pear flavors, adorned in caramelized honey.
Pale copper in color, this graceful homage to French winemaker Alexandrine Roy is a real joy. Slightly dusty flavors conjure dried flowers, watermelon and strawberry. It's finished dry, and lingers elegantly on the palate.
This is a bold ripe wine that is dominated by firm while juicy Tannat. Named after the characteristic black berets worn by the menfolk of Gascony, the wine is powerful and dense with black fruits and balanced acidity. Drink this already enjoyable wine now, or better from 2018.
This delicious rosé is packed with citrus, watermelon, strawberry and apple power. There's plenty of acid and a dry finish, with a pleasing firmness to the palate.
This luxurious and well-mannered wine was aged in a new but un-toasted French cask. Solid structure supports its ample fruit flavors and full body, lending balance. Bright acidity and moderate tannins add texture on the palate, framing its ripe black cherry, blueberry and dark chocolate flavors nicely.
Light citrus and floral aromas meld with richer, riper flavors and a generous texture. More than just a palate cleanser, this unoaked wine has some depth and is rich enough to hold interest.
A blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Merlot, this easygoing red offers aromas and flavors of red currant, black cherry, white pepper and a hint of clove. Smooth, rather fleeting tannins provide the easy-drinking framework.
This has a lighter and more mature color than usual, along with lighter and more mature aromas and flavors. After adjusting for the apparent time warp, it's easy to enjoy the alluring aroma of cherries and black tea, and rather light cinnamon and pomegranate flavors.
Chunky and fruit forward, this opens with scents of roses and cherries, and cherry fruit is the most striking impression on the palate. There's a light suggestion of leather also, and sharp, finishing acidity.
Made with Sangiovese and Merlot, this soft, fruity wine offers juicy black cherry, raspberry and the faintest hint of baking spice. It's easy-drinking and accessible, thanks to fresh acidity and round tannins. Drink now.
Wild strawberry and a soft layering of fresh earth form the core of this blend, based mostly on Cabernet Sauvignon, with a healthy dose of Merlot and then smaller supporting handfuls of Cabernet Franc, Malbec and Petit Verdot. Blackberries come to fore as the wine develops, along with a swathe of bittersweet chocolate.
Tropical ripeness shows strong on the nose of this wine, which is made from the Musque clone out of the Carter Estate Vineyard. It shows aromas of Juicy Fruit gum, papaya-orange-guava juice and daffodils. The palate offers a honeyed red-apple flavor.
Floral aromas of buttercup and peach blossom are true to the variety. This is also correct in its full, round, peach-driven palate. Apricot and mango flavors creep toward an astringent and salty finish.
Clean, modest lemon-lime aromas open this citrusy Sauv Blanc. Citrus, nettle, white pepper and jalapeño flavors are direct, while the finish hums with peppery spice and preserving acidity.
Bright, fruity and with light tannins, this is a generous, open approach to Malbec. It has fruit more than structure, plus plenty of black plums and ripe berries sharpened by acidity. It's ready to drink.
Herbal peppercorn gives this wine an edge on the nose that speaks to grapes that were picked not overripe. The palate offers thick, smoky oak and perceptible sandalwood and cedar. On the finish is more of that herbal greenness. The wine is blended with tiny amounts of Malbec and Petit Verdot.
Aromas of pomegranate juice, wood smoke and vanilla lead to fairly generous flavors of ripe plum and toasted oak. It's full-bodied and firm in texture, with enough tannins and acidity to keep the mouthfeel lively.
Baked, earthy aromas of vanilla and raisin suggest a ripe wine with an overt oak character. A shearing, tannic palate is an enamel-peeler, while this tastes of wiry plum and blackberry. On the finish it settles a bit, leaving spicy notes.
This combines the sweet spiciness of oak with the apparent sweetness of the grapes in a full-bodied, extreme-flavored package. Aromas suggest charred wood, vanilla, maple syrup and cherry juice, while the flavor conveys blackberry jam.
Briny aromas of seashell and beach grass fold in red fruit scents and leather. This high-acid wine delivers a crisp one-note mouthfeel and zesty, herbal flavors of red fruits and oak.
A subtle but not quite austere wine, this has mild honeydew melon aromas, subdued grape and mineral flavors, and a dry, slightly tart texture that's appetizing. Light-bodied, it makes a nice choice for people who don't like too much fruitiness.
Solid blackberry aromas mark the nose. This is astringent on the palate, with rock-hard tannins. Blackberry, cassis and prune flavors veer toward chocolate on a choppy, tough finish.
The grapes used in this rosé are unspecified, but seem more tannic and earthy than Pinot Noir. Cranberry, tart apple and a strong streak of citrus define this medium-bodied wine. It's perfect for summer outdoors sipping.
On the nose, the wine offers soft floral aromas with a spin of lemon. On the palate, it's overall fresh and friendly, with citrus and tropical fruit flavors.
Roasted, smoky, earthy aromas of herbal berry fruits and leather stir interest. In the mouth, this Tempranillo is firm and chewy, with full tannins. Savory, spicy and baked in flavor, this basic Penedès red finishes dry, peppery and with leathery berry notes.
Notes of sea breeze and brackish lend an earthy, saline tone to this off-dry Riesling. Lemon-lime and crisp pear flavors are sprightly and fresh on the palate. Drink now.
This is a solid, well-made white from the Southern Rhône, offering aromas and flavors of wet stone and melon. Despite boasting ample weight on the palate, it finishes on a crisp note of underripe pineapple.
Hard, cool-climate aromas of asphalt and black olive are offset by stewy, savory notes. This Syrah is chewy and tannic in feel, with herbal, roasted flavors that suggest marginal ripeness. Earthy berry and salty flavors carry the finish.
Earthy cherry and plum aromas are a bit briny, while the palate delivers lively acidity and an overall spunky mouthfeel. Flavors of mixed berries, spices and herbs finish with mild oak and clarity.
Ripe, yellow peach and apricot flavors are dusted by layers of smoke and mineral in this fruity yet deeply earthen spätlese. Brisk lemon-lime acidity keeps the mouthfeel fresh and breezy.
Aromas of scorched earth, toasted oak, espresso and a gamy note lead the nose. The extracted palate offers blackberry extract, bitter sage and crushed black pepper alongside drying but fleeting tannins.
A jasmine bouquet introduces layers of bright lemon and lime in this sharply etched white, low in oak but high in acidity. Straightforward and medium bodied, it has a pronounced tartness on the finish.
A mild bouquet of generic stone-fruit aromas is a touch empty but friendly. This is mild on the palate, with modest acidity and not much minerally kick. Briny, leesy nectarine flavors finish round in feel. Drink immediately.
Here's an easygoing blend of Sangiovese and 5% Cabernet Sauvignon that opens with scents of purple flowers and red and black berries. The simple, fruity palate doles out wild cherry, black raspberry and a hint of sweet baking spice alongside soft tannins and fresh acidity.
Barrel fermented and pushed right on through secondary malolactic fermentation, this estate-grown and bottled effort mixes light, green apple and celery stalk flavors with a touch of barrel toast.
This blends fruit from 40% Rita's Crown, 30% Bentrock, 16% Clos Pepe, 10% Zotovich and 4% Kessler Haak vineyards to deliver awesome aromas of salted caramel and sea spray. It's soft and lush once sipped with roasted apples and mango, speckled with even acidity and rockiness. It finishes on marshmallow-marzipan flavors, all subtly done.
Tight and restrained aromas of just-opening white blossoms are laid against a brioche backdrop with hints of spring grass too. It's very high toned on the palate, driven by limestone minerality with an acidic zing powered by lemon juice and lime peels. The apple flavors pick up a unique but pleasant sense of crushed, dried herbs as well.
A sweet trail of orange marmalade percolates through this succulently sweet wine. On the midpalate, savory tones of smoke, nuts and bruised apple add shades of complexity, but the finish is pure and pristine, a shower of lemon and honey that goes on endlessly.
This high-altitude, Chehalem Mountains vineyard puts on a show with this 2012. A sweet chocolate and cherry nose unfolds into a complex, elegant and beautifully proportioned wine, with blackberry, mineral and baking spice components. The lingering finish promises even better things to come if you give it another six to eight years in the cellar. Drink 2015 through 2025.
This always-impressive wine is a blend that pits local Alentejo grapes against Syrah and Petit Verdot. Concentrated and complex, it is packed both with black fruits and dark tannins. Intense acidity proclaims its youth and this powerful wine will need to age. Drink from 2019.
From 20-year-old, Dijon clone estate vines, this substantial, tongue-gripping Chardonnay has intense depth of flavor. A luscious mix of grapefruit, apple, melon, spice and mineral elements, it drives down through the palate and never quits.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon given two years in French oak, this sanguine, expertly structured and elegant wine offers plenty of bright cassis and blackberry flavor on the palate, seducing with complex layers of dried herb and black tea. Enjoyable now, this wine will also benefit from time; hold through 2022.
New Jersey home-winemaker-turned-California-Pinot-pro David Rossi delivers a delicious wine from the eastside of the Salinas Valley, with umami-meets-floral aromas of wild strawberry-clove mousse, violet-infused soy sauce and eucalyptus shavings. Ripe flavors of raspberry and blackberry get lifted by nutmeg, allspice and pine, with a tart, bitter cranberry-skin note on the finish.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon from the M5 block of Stagecoach Vineyard, the producer's own estate, this offers notes of pipe tobacco and tar, with shades of pencil lead and cedar bearing down on the palate. It's mouthfilling, with ample acidity showing through in the background followed by a long finish. Cellar through 2026.
In keeping with his practice of making vineyard, rather than varietal wines, Marcel Deiss blends this wine from different members of the Pinot family. It has a strongly dry spice element as well as fresher fruit and a touch of pears. Complex, it needs to age several years, so drink from 2017.
A Chateauneuf-du-Pape inspired blend of 64% Grenache, 24% Mourvèdre and 12% Syrah, Moriah was not made in 2011 but roars back to life in 2012 light ruby red in color and fully refined in rose petal aromatics. Integrated and subtle, it's focused in bright red fruit and layered white pepper.
Graphite, maple and other oaky aromas dominate this lush, pitch-black Tinto Fino. A chewy, dense mouthfeel is rich as an oil baron, while oak-driven flavors of vanilla and baking spices accent blackberry and cassis. On the finish, this is monster-sized and full of blue-fruit deliciousness. Drink through 2020.
Vargellas is always associated with violet aromas as well as the strength and power of its wines inside a velvet glove. The 2012 is concentrated yet soft and smooth on the surface. It's fruity and fresh, while brooding with inner strength. Drink now for its fruit; wait until 2021 for its power and longevity.
Heady, rich, balsamic aromas fold in attractive notes of cedar, tobacco and black cherry in front of a fully ripe, superbly balanced palate that nails it in terms of structure. Mocha, espresso, fudge and blackberry flavors finish with spicy, mossy, dry notes and a final wave of blackened toast and tannins. Best from 2017–2022.
This is an exceptional Zinfandel from a renowned site, as famous for Pinot Noir and Chardonnay as it has now become for Zin. Heady aromas of raspberry, blackberry and boysenberry tease before coming to life on the palate, accented by a delightful complement of allspice and juicy acidity. Medium bodied, it's incredibly easy to enjoy and rich in all the right ways.
Pristine apple, pear and peach are marked with hints of nuts and crushed stones in this sprightly yet deeply complex auslese. It's lacy and sheer on the palate, yet lime and lemon tones are bracing. Hold till 2020 to allow the subtleties to intensify.
While dry and delicate in body, this intense, penetrating Riesling is lush with sun-drenched peaches. A steely, mineral tone lends gravitas to the midpalate, finishing lean, elegant and bright. Enjoy now for its exuberant youth, but store some away to enjoy as its minerality intensifies from 2020 on.
A barrel selection from estate-grown grapes, this Pinot succeeds in rich red raspberry and an offering of strawberry-rhubarb pie, the texture velvety smooth. The oak builds through the finish, providing ample body and substance, yet the wine stays light and lilting on the palate, inviting one in for more.
This is a sweet, honeyed wine that's powerful and concentrated. It's full of spice, ripe tropical fruits and pleasurable sweetness. Just behind all this richness lies a great acidity that's so attractive. The wine could be drunk now, but it will be even better from 2017.
Zind-Humbrecht owns some great Grand Cru vineyards, perhaps none more so than the Clos Saint Urbain. This luscious, rich, sweet wine shows both power and intensity without losing any sense of structure. It's young, needing many years to show off its full potential. Drink from 2018.
Dark fruits and graceful highlights of black tea, citrus oil, tobacco and mocha make this an endlessly fascinating wine with impressive complexity. Give it extended breathing time and it rewards you with layer after layer of silky fruit, leaf and spice. This is a 20-year wine, but may be enjoyed immediately with ample airing.
Always one of the finest expressions of Nero d'Avola, this polished, delicious wine opens with enticing aromas of blue flower, dark berry and a whiff of smoky graphite. The smooth, almost creamy palate doles out layers of blackberry, pomegranate, raspberry, white pepper, carob and licorice, while velvety tannins and fresh acidity provide support. Drink through 2021.
From the tiny Faro denomination overlooking the Strait of Messina, this cult red opens with earthy aromas of tilled soil, leather, dried berry, smoke, savory herb and a hint of game. Displaying compelling earthy elegance, the palate offers black cherry, raspberry, tobacco, truffle, tobacco, soil, graphite and licorice. It's still young but impeccably balanced, with firm but fine-grained tannins and bright acidity. Hold for even more complexity. Drink 2018–2025.
Exuberant floral tones persist from nose to finish in this luminously sweet Riesling. It's feather light on the palate, yet pineapple and mango flavors are unctuous and concentrated. A spray of tangerine acidity extends the finish endlessly.
The Legacy estate reserve sources the original mid-1970s vines. It's a delicate, high-wire act, balanced on a bed of rose petals. From the floral aromatics into flavors of red currant and black cherry, it takes you on a well-modulated joyride. Veins of anise, cola and clay add complexity, as the details expand into a lingering finish. Drink 2015–2030.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon from a prominent site, this wine boasts bright, juicy red cassis and pomegranate fruit supported by complex layers of dried herb, coconut and pencil shavings. Ready to enjoy now and through 2021, it finishes with a taste of bittersweet chocolate.
This aptly expresses the characteristics of wines from the McMinnville AVA. A steely, peppery, gun-metal streak runs up and down the spine, with tight, compact blue and black fruits, ripping acidity, firm tannins and a light suggestion of root beer. It's all in place in a wine that seems destined for a life of two decades or longer.
This gorgeous Zinfandel comes from a vineyard on Bradford Mountain at 1,000 feet elevation, with the vines planted in red, volcanic soils. The palate explodes in juicy plum flavor, with a silky, velvety texture and satisfying cinnamon and pepper spice that plays off the fruit. It's a structured and fresh selection.
A blend of Nerello Mascalese, Nerello Cappuccio, Nocera and Nero d'Avola, this polished wine conveys earthy aromas including violet, ripe berry, leather, game and baking spice. The savory palate doles out juicy black cherry, ripe raspberry, licorice, cinnamon and clove alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2016–2020.
LTU is a small-production label that reaches big. The 2010 Malbec is rich and smooth up front, with robust, lusty aromas of coconut, graphite, blackberry and blueberry. Creamy oak and fresh acidity make for a plush, modern mouthfeel, while flavors of coconut, toffee, vanilla and blackberry are deep and pure. A ripe, round, decadent finish with flavors of toasted coconut flake, berry extract and tight tannins wraps this up. Drink through 2020.
This is a dense wine with firm tannins and a solid structure. The black currant fruits are stalky and still developing, along with the acidity. It's a lean wine and needs to age for a few more months to fill out, so drink from 2017.
Balsamic notes, leather, menthol and red berry aromas take center stage. On the firm palate, tightly wound tannins frame black cherry and a hint of anise. Give this another year or two to unfold then drink up.
Earthy rooty aromas of aged dry berry fruits and tobacco are scratchy while hinting at complexity. In the mouth, this Gran Reserva is drawing and tight. Herbal raspberry and dried cherry flavors finish with raw tannins and oaky vanilla flavors. Drink now through 2020.
Produced as a wine that is ready to drink young, this comes from the 100-year old Mouchão winery. It is fresh with red fruits along with a dry structure, although it is the fruits that win out. Fresh and bright, it will be ready to drink from 2017.
This is an eclectic collection of white Rhône varieties, beginning with equal parts Roussanne and Viognier, supported by Grenache Blanc, Picpoul Blanc and Marsanne. A combination of honey and dried apricot are the standouts, aligned with a lilt of fresh peach and salty caramel.
Vivid aromas and flavors of apricot define this blend of seven white varieties as something different, tangy and delicious. While very fruity in flavor, the wine remains dry, and an ever-so-slight bitterness adds an appetizing snap.
Floral scents float above a chunky, cherry-fruited, single-vineyard wine. It's quite refreshing, with appealing texture and underlying minerality that compensates for the overall impression of palate lightness. Drink now through 2018, while the freshness remains at its peak.
Dried red raspberry and pomegranate fruits mix with a persistent leathery character and spicy nutmeg on the nose of this wine. Cranberries and cooked berries show on the tart palate, which is driven by graphite, minerals and slightly chunky tannins.
This is open and generous, a soft wine that will be ready to drink soon. It still has some firm structure although that serves as a support to the blackberry fruit flavors. The aftertaste is juicy and fresh.
A wood- aged wine that is ripe and smooth. It has only the barest hint of toastiness, the wood serving more to fill out the rich fruitiness. It does need to age, so drink from 2017.
Stewed plums and strawberries partner with lilacs, sagebrush and hard cinnamon candy on the nose of this bottling, which is boosted by 12% Grenache, 7% Syrah and 6% Petite Sirah. Juicy, rich cherry and blueberry flavors meet with a rocky, black-slate character on the palate.
A ripe and juicy wine, this is rich with black fruits. Soft tannins and a stalky backdrop make it very approachable when young. So drink this full fruity wine now.
Aromas of dark berry, cooking spice, chopped herb and a whiff of violet lead the nose. The racy palate offers sour cherry, cranberry, espresso and sage alongside brisk acidity and close-grained tannins. A hint of clove closes the finish.
This new cuvée takes its name from the fermentation practice of mixing whole berries with grape-cluster stalks—just stalks, not whole clusters. Herbs and pine needle flavors dominate brambly berry fruit. It's quite young and raw, and will benefit from further bottle age.
The winery's entry-level bottling, this offers turned earth, juniper, cola and ripe red cherries on the nose. The cherries carry to the palate, where they meet with tangy cranberries, oregano-thyme herbs and grippy plum skin tannins that last into a solid finish.
Crushed violet, red berry, mint and menthol aromas lead the nose. The firm palate offers dried red cherry, raw strawberry, licorice, white pepper and sage alongside grippy tannins that leave an astringent finish. Give the tannins a few more years to unclench then enjoy before the remaining fruit fades.
Solid dark-berry aromas are dense and deep. This has a plump forward fruity palate with concentrated, toasty flavors of blackberry and dark plum. On the finish, this remains fruity and compact, with more than enough body weight.
Oaky aromas of raspberry and currant come with notes of animal fur, lemon peel and shoe polish. This feels lively and not too heavy, with pointy, almost lemony raspberry and plum flavors that finish herbal, dry, medicinal and oaky. Drink this fresh, wiry Rioja through 2018.
Aromas of dried berry, leather and camphor unfold in the glass. The full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, fig, menthol, anise and exotic spice alongside bracing tannins that leave a raspy, astringent finish. Let the tannins soften and unclench, then drink up.
Dark spicy aromas of black plum and black currant are solid. In the mouth, this is saturated and hard, with heavy overall density and strong tannins. A dark, spicy, blackened set of dark-berry flavors finishes with more spice and mint than fruit.
The nose on this Malbec-Merlot from Salta is raw and saucy, with more brawn and rusticity than elegance. A compact grabby palate is intense, with herbal plum and hefty berry notes that mellow on a chunky lightly herbal finish.
This full-bodied wine has an elegant bouquet that invites, before pomegranate, plum and orange peel figure in on the palate. Powerful on the finish, it features hints of coconut and vanilla around the leathery texture.
Lime zest and freshly cut grass lend a particularly invigorating cool to this dry, delicate Riesling. It's brashly mineral on the palate, finishing tightly with a bracing shower of acidity.
Plush, showy aromas of candied apples, caramelized pears, condensed honeysuckle, yellow peach, quinine and cinnamon spice show on the nose of this wine. The palate takes a sour turn, with lemon peels, pear skins and a touch of chamomile.
A year's barrel aging has smoothed the firm tannins of the dark berry fruits in this wine. It is still very structured with layers of tannins and a dark smoky almost bitter character. It really needs some time to open up, so wait until 2018.
After five years, the Baga is beginning to soften to create a structured while generously fruity wine. It has acidity and a solid tannic base which is topped by black currant and berry fruits and followed by a richly juicy aftertaste. The crisp, crunchy aftertaste is typical of the grape as it matures. Drink now and until 2022.
As with tawny Ports, the other Douro fortified wine, Moscatel, is aged in wood for an average of a decade. In this 10-year old, the wine still has its fruit, but it is just starting to show old wood aging flavors that are beginning to concentrate it. There is a strongly perfumed, spicy aftertaste. Drink now.
From a vineyard known for producing powerfully ripe, dense fruit with wet-stone minerality, this wine delivers on many of those points. It offers intense, rich tastes of baked apple, graham-cracker crust and crème brûlée. Soft and layered, it ends in a statement of big fruit.
Briny, thick and gravelly, this is a blend of 42% Roussanne, 20% Grenache Blanc, 20% Picpoul Blanc and 18% Marsanne, fermented half in neutral French oak and half in stainless steel. High-toned acidity and citrus wrap around salty, herbal undertones, finishing crisp and light.
Barrel-fermented in neutral oak, this is ready to drink, softly flavorful with yellow apple and other yellow fruits, and a warm, autumnal mouthfeel. Drink now through 2018.
Emeritus is a blend of 83% Cabernet Sauvignon with Petit Verdot and Syrah filling out the form. Dense earthy aromas of blackberry come with a note of graphite, while the oak on this bruiser smells a bit cheesy. Pounding blackberry and chocolate-cake flavors finish oaky, toasty, baked and incredibly ripe. Drink this massive wine through 2023.
For an entry-level wine, this is excellent. The aromas and flavors feature smoky, stemmy, herbal goodness layered over blueberries and black cherries, while the palate is full and supple and the finish long, silky and elegant. The quality of this wine has me looking even more forward to Torbreck's high end 2014s.
Made entirely from Sangiovese, this elegant red boasts classic varietal aromas such as violet, red berry and new leather. On the bright, sleek palate, cinnamon and Mediterranean herb accent a juicy core of Morello cherry and crushed raspberry fruit. It's nicely balanced, with polished tannins and fresh acidity. Drink through 2025.
Great Southern is an underrated source for Cabernet Sauvignon, amply demonstrated by this wine. Expansive notes of cedar, brown sugar, vanilla and baking spices enrobe tart berries, while the wine's firm structure carries through to a crisp, tannic finish. Try in 2020.
Almost equal proportions of Merlot and Cabernet Franc have given a beautifully perfumed wine. It has quite a structure for a second wine, although this is balanced with the intense black fruits. The touches of wood have given this wine its light spice flavor. Drink from 2023.
With a majority of Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend, the wine is finely structured and filled with intense black fruits. It has a dry core that will allow it to age slowly and gently. The wine has juicy acidity, a tightly tannic core and great potential. Drink from 2021.
This is a bright wine—still a little closed but promising fine fruitiness for the future. With herbal acidity, lemon and grapefruit flavors and a zesty tang at the end, it will develop relatively quickly. Drink from 2020.
Under the same ownership as Château la Dominque in neighboring Saint-Emilion, this estate produces 100% Merlot. This generous wine with its rich tannins is dark with tight acidity, juicy black fruits and dark coffee flavors. It is concentrated and is going to take many years to soften. Drink from 2023.
Claiming, with some pride, to have the longest chateau name in Bordeaux, this estate on the plateau of Saint-Émilion, close to Château Figeac, has given a 2014 that is dense, juicy and with great fruit. The tannins and the fruit are balanced with the blackberry flavors supported by the dry core. Drink from 2022.
This wine, which is dominated by Sauvignon Blanc, is from a small plot in the vineyard of La Garde. It is wood aged, giving spice as well as ripe, smooth fruit. There is a young herbal edge that will certainly soften as it ages. This is an aromatic crisp wine that will be ready to drink from 2021.
The chateau owes its name to the 18th-century Joseph Laffitte who created the estate. The wine ,which comes from the heart of Saint-Estèphe, is ripe with spice. With generous tannins and equally generous fruit, it is dominated by Cabernet Sauvignon that gives it the structure as well as the juicy fruitiness. Drink this fine wine from 2021.
Aromatic notes of tart, baked apple fill the nose. On the palate these aromas revert to the flavors of fresh yellow apples with juicy tartness. The palate is fresh and vivid, dry and brisk. The finish is clean and really lip smacking. It's the apple notion that lasts longest.
This excellent boutique brand is slowly expanding, doubling the production of the estate wine in 2014, and adding two new vineyards to the mix in 2016. Consistent from vintage to vintage is the elegance and depth of detail, beginning with subtle, entwined fruit flavors of raspberry and cherry. Hints of dried herb, cigar box, and a touch of chocolate come up through the finish. The tannins are proportionate, though still a bit astringent, suggesting a few more years of bottle age would be beneficial.
The wine from this estate, controlled by Jean-Luc Thunevin of Château Valandraud, is serious with dark tannins and concentrated fruit. It is complex with layers of black fruit and a sweet ripe structure. Serious, intense and with fine acidity as a balance, it will be ready from 2023.
This opens with underbrush, sun-baked earth, spiced plum and espresso aromas. On the taut, full-bodied palate, licorice, clove and grilled herb notes accent a core of black cherry and crushed raspberry fruit. Tightly knit, fine-grained tannins suggest ageing potential. Drink 2020–2028.
With its high proportion of Cabernet Sauvignon, this second wine of Mouton-Rothschild is packed with black currant fruit as well as the intense acidity of the vintage. The fruit is rich, ripe and dark with tannins and black plum flavors. There is spice and toast from the wood aging that will soften as the wine ages. Drink from 2023.
A lovely mix of aromas appears on the nose: a touch of sandalwood amidst fresh greenery—something at once sonorous and very fresh. The gentle and mostly subtle sandalwood notes continue across the palate, with a touch of mace, alongside something tenderly green, like aloe vera and chervil. This is a most unusual and most intriguing wine. If you were wondering about Sylvaner, here's one to mesmerize you.
This fascinating, distinctive wine has a frame of grapefruity citrus around peppery pomegranates. It's well knit, textural, and finishes with more citrus rind phenolics. It's sleek and polished, though not a opulently fruity as the listed alcohol might suggest.
A beautifully rich and rewarding expression of tropical fruit and creamy texture, this estate white spends nine months in large French oak casks and is selected from the best lots. Supporting acidity keeps it refreshing in waves of lime and grapefruit.
Svelte, focused and very appealing, this block selection has a slightly roasted aspect, with flavors of plum and cherry. There's a sweet spicy coating around the finishing tannins. It was fermented with native yeast, and aged 15 months in one-quarter new French oak.
This wine from Champagne native Christian Roguenant hits all the right Pinot notes with aplomb. Fragrant cherry blossom and red fruit aromas are spiced with mace and loamy earth notes. The palate combines rich red fruit with touches of earth and baking spice, manages to stay light and refreshing in body.
From the producer's oldest estate vineyard, planted in 1970, this is lovely in rose petals and baked fruit, offering a powerful density of full-bodied concentration and succulence on the palate. A velvety texture is complemented by a bite of oak and tannin that flirts with grip.
This intriguing category—white wine made from red grapes—finds another winner in this new release from Aberrant Cellars. A pale copper hue, it's rich and full bodied, loaded with flavors of poached pear. Highlights of pepper and toast give way to a finish that somehow suggests Butterfinger candy. It's flat-out gorgeous from start to finish.
A whole host of aromas interest here: black and red cherry, fresh earth, lifted conifer and a touch of mocha. The palate is concentrated and has a lovely texture of starched velvet. This echoes aromatically and has a vein of brightening freshness at its core. There is warmth and a huge generosity of fruit that is utterly moreish.
This is a recent addition to the winery's expansive repertoire of single-vineyard selections, and it offers a pretty mix of strawberry fruit in a toasty, pastry-flavored mode. It's perfect for near-term drinking, fresh and delicious, though lightly framed.
Dry Riesling of this quality is capable of aging up to two decades, especially under screw cap. this one is medium bodied and dominated at the moment by ripe, citrusy fruit. It's more orange than lime, yet still shows great acidity and length. Drink 2020–2030.
The 2014 vintage was slightly cooler than 2013 in the Barossa, which bodes well for Cabernet. This shows aromatic red currants, bay leaf and sage on the nose, then folds in hints of cinnamon and brown sugar. The oak is in the background, letting the fruit carry the wine, yet building in a rich, velvety texture. Drink now–2030.
Fragrant blue flower, red berry and balsamic notes set the tone for this delicious red. The elegantly structured palate delivers wild cherry, crushed raspberry and chopped mint flavors, a potpourri of dark spice lingering through the finish. It's enjoyable now but promises fine drinking over the next several years. Drink through 2022.
All the rich and aromatic flavors of ripe peaches unite in this fruity wine. The fruit sweetness is balanced by zesty freshness. Together, they create a lip-smackingly sweet and intense flavor experience. This is full-on and medium-sweet with a clean finish.
Crisp boysenberry and black raspberry aromas meet with lthyme, oregano and a touch of caramelization on the nose of this Sea Smoke bottling. Dark cranberry fruit shows on the palate, lifted by anise, pepper and an array of herbs, all framed by a leathery texture. Drink now until 2028.
Delicate fruit fragrances of stone fruit, pineapple, cantaloupe and freshly cut grass take the lead. The palate offers juicy yellow peach, green melon and a mineral note alongside crisp acidity.
The cold vintage impacted this Pinot Noir. While it has raspberry and cherry jam flavors, with plenty of toasty oak, it's a bit one-dimensional, stretched to the limit of richness. Give it an hour or two in the decanter and drink up.
White-fruit aromas are tropical, with warmth and weight. A round, raring-to-go palate brings loads of peach, citrus and spice flavors, while the finish is loud, with tons of sweet, ripe fruit rambling out the door.
This medium-bodied wine has attractive aromas of yellow peach, pear and tropical fruit. The concentrated palate offers ripe pear, golden apple, papaya and pineapple with a note of bitter almond on the finish.
A rich wine that has weight, solid tannins and ripe black currant flavors. It conveys a strong sense of structure without losing sight of a stylish fruitiness and firm texture. With acidity cutting through the richness, it will age well. Drink from 2016.
A big and ripe wine with tannins and fruitiness all well integrated. It has weight, a dense character and rich juicy black fruits. It's maturing nicely, giving a wine that is balanced and delicious.
It's certainly tannic and tough at the moment, the wine also has so much fruit. That will allow it to round out, bringing out the black currant fruitiness and resulting in a full, rich and perfumed wine. Wait until 2018.
This perfumed wine is full of both tannins and juicy black fruits. The wood aging shows lightly on the palate but will integrate well with another year or two. Full and rich, it will be ready to drink by 2017.
As with many Oregon Pinots from the 2011 vintage, this is a restrained, elegant, aromatic wine with excellent complexity. Rhubarb and raspberry fruit is accented with a hint of mint and chocolate.
Although this wine earns its reserve designation with extra concentration, it comes at the cost of complexity. The tart rhubarb and cranberry flavors are tight and the mouthfeel blocky; the wine seems to hit a wall and stop at the stiff tannins.
Savory and medium-bodied, it's loaded with sensations of juicy green apple, Bartlett pear, Spanish broom, almond and citrus peel. The creamy palate is brightened with crisp acidity that give balance and a brisk finish.
Hard tannins mark this dry, young Cabernet. They give the wine an astringent mouthfeel, although the powerful blackberry and dark chocolate fruits break right through. Hard to predict if it will age, but give it a good, long decanting and drink it with hearty stews and roasts.
Dry, tart and tannic. It has appealing cranberry, licorice Twizzler candy, rosehip tea and white pepper flavors, with an edge of smoky oak. Drink up.
Oak extract dominates the nose on this wine together with aromas of Golden Delicous apple and lemon zest. The palate offers lemon, oak, vanilla and clove, but it lacks the fruit richness needed to support the oak.
Earthy, almost funky aromas recall farmyard and overripe black fruit, with whiffs of leather and menthol. The palate offers fleshy black cherry, licorice and coffee, sweetened with sugary vanilla notes alongside bracing tannins. It's a bit muddled right now but it may improve with more bottle age. Drink after 2016.
This attractive blend of Chardonnay, Arinto and Vital is fresh, fruity, packed with apple and lemon flavors and totally ready to drink. There's a great line in acidity, a crisp texture and a green, lively aftertaste.
This Pinot offers bright tart cherry fruit and earthy spice in good proportion and is softly textured. From the remote Mendocino Ridge and aged in entirely French oak, it's still young and exhibiting plenty of oaky toast on the finish.
Mostly stainless fermentation, with 30% done in neutral oak, yields a wine heavily scented with fresh-baked bread. It's smooth and light, the green apple fruit flavors yielding to a finish that tails off again to lingering scents of bread.
This delicate Pinot Noir provides plenty of drinking pleasure, but it's not without limitations. Chief among them is a hint of raw, dank mushroom. It's not strong, but just enough to weigh down the raspberries and cherries. Drink it by 2016.
Cabernet specialist Laird turns their hand to Pinot, with mixed results. The wine is a little heavy, showing extracted cherry jam, raspberry Newton, rum punch and brown sugar flavors. It's tasty, but lacks the complex vitality and elusiveness.
With touches of vanilla and caramel as well as ripe yellow fruits, this is a warm, generous Chardonnay. It has freshness from the citrus edge and a soft texture. Straightforward, it is an open and ready-to-drink wine.
Dry and tannic, this Pinot is elevated by rich, ripe, complex flavors of raspberries, cherries and persimmons. It has a great burst of acidity that practically begs for a steak or burger. Drink now.
It starts with a light fragrance of spring flowers and pear. The bright palate offers white peach and citrus notes alongside crisp acidity that leaves a clean finish.
Buena Vista continues to honor its heritage by offering better wines that pay homage to the winery's past. This is another example, a voluptuous Zin with dark blackberry and tar, just the right spread of spiciness on the finish.
Aromas suggest rose petals, lychee and graphite. They all carry over to the palate along with grapefruit, mineral and a saline—almost salty—note. Pair this with spicy Indian cuisine.
This light, bright and very fruity wine almost dances on the palate. Peach and apple skin flavors bring out a crisp, green acidity. A touch of minerality and texture give the wine character. Drink now.
This is a full wine, with rich flavors and a light, fruity structure. The wine has tastes of apricot, citrus and creamed pear, backed up by toast and acidity. Already balanced, it's a wine to drink until 2018.
Old vines help give smoothness and concentration to this ripe wine. It has soft tannins, well integrated into the black cherry fruits, and acidity. With its spice and rounded texture, it is a wine to drink now.
Very ripe, with a solid structure, this is dense and tannic. Its black plum and berry fruits are rich, jammy and likely to show well with the tannins in a few years. Drink from 2016.
The tannins are hard and dry on this Cab that was blended with some Malbec. But still, there's a tremendous core of blackberry jam, black currant and cassis liqueur flavor. The wine might soften if cellared until 2017.
A mix of plum and vanilla, this is an easygoing Merlot that's good for most group occasions and palates, muted in aroma but developed in flavor.
Fresh and fruity with a strong lemon flavor, this is full, crisp and totally bone-dry. It does have some weight and a lemon zest sharpness as well as a ripe texture from aging on the lees. Drink now.
Fans of sharply scented Sauvignon Blancs will be happy with this bottling, which features a strong nose of green pear skin and freshly cut lawn. It is fairly flat upon sipping, though, with a bit of Granny Smith apple tang and faint lemongrass.
Tobacco aromas are followed by a palate that is classic smoky, cool Cabernet Franc. With tannins, juicy acidity and light red berry flavors, it's a fruity wine with a bright aftertaste.
A bright, light and fruity wine that's already delicious to drink. With lemon and green apple fruit, it also has acidity that cuts through the aftertaste.
This herbaceous, classically fruity wine is given a push by a touch of spice. It's bright, light, and fresh, with a green aftertaste. It's ready to drink.
Fruity, and crisp, it has citrus flavors balanced by an intense herbal character. It's fresh and juicy; the acidity gives a bright, lively aftertaste.
Very fruity, this is a ripe Merlot-dominated rosé with some Cabernet Franc. It is rounded, smooth, soft at the end with bright and crisp acidity. Wild strawberries and a rich aftertaste give extra weight.
Apple and peach aromas are slightly waxy and show a spot of petrol. This is citrusy but full in body, with flavors of apple, pear, melon and citrus. A plump, basic finish is monotone, but clean and fruity.
Aromas of clover honey and raisin pick up traces of baking spice and date on the palate. Astringent, bulletproof tannins brace the palate. Roquefort anyone?
Fleeting leather and black fruit notes creep onto the medium-full palate, which feels malleable with its lank acids. The finish comes with a focused note of long-cut tobacco.
Green plums and ripe apples bring out the best in Arinto's range of flavors. This is a soft wine, with light acidity that's well integrated into the rich fruitiness. Drink now.
Classic herbaceous, catty aromas usher in a wine that has crisp, gooseberry and grapefruit flavors. It's bright and tight, with acidity that dominates all the fruitiness. It needs to be drunk by 2015.
This is a ripe while intensely herbaceous wine. It's steely and crisp, but spoiled by the intrusion of sulfur that hasn't gone away. If the sulfur blows off, this is a potentially attractive and fruity wine finished off with lemon zest.
Quince and lemon aromas continue on the palate. Crisp and tightly textured, it's spoiled by a metallic flavor that hardens the aftertaste.
A medium-bodied wine with mild strawberry and cherry flavors, this feels lithe and easygoing. It finishes smooth but short.
This young sparkler is bracingly tart, and seems to have zero dosage. Flavors are simple, fruity and fresh, and the wine works well as a base for cocktails.
This is a medium sweet rosé, fresh while having a riper core character. It's a fruity, lightly spicy and caramel flavored, with acidity and sweetness coming through strongly to finish.
Dark cherry and mocha aromas come with a hint of desiccation. Supple and smooth on the palate, this finishes with a tangy mineral element and some warmth.
A sense of sweetness from oak smooths out this medium- to full-bodied wine and complements the moderate tannins and smooth texture. A pleasant plummy thread winds through the aromas and flavors, lingering on the finish.
Here is a lightly sparkling, just off-dry Vinho Verde, the sort of wine that just goes down as an apéritif or, in Portugal, with sardines. It's a crisp, bright wine, a lemon curd flavor finishing the apple fruitiness.
This is an attractive, soft wine, with fruit right up front. It has light acidity, with pink grapefruit and lime flavors that are bright and lively. Drink now.
A wiry, fresh, slightly briny smelling nose sets up a pointed, zesty palate with electric, high-strung flavors of red plum and wild berry. The finish is hard, juicy and a little hot and fiery.
In this hot vintage, the wine seems narrow and reduced on the nose and palate. A collapsed structure shows density and jammy flavors of leafy berry, herbs and spice. The finish feels spent but offers tobacco and earth notes.
A mix of peach and lychee aromas give an exotic edge. Full in body and fleshy, this is endowed with concentrated flavors and tense acids.
Tight and herbaceous, this bright and fruity wine offers grapefruit, very fresh acidity and lemon zest flavors. It's all about fruit with no complexity, just pleasure.
Ripe and fruity, it does have some weight, structure and a smoky character from wood aging. A wine with a future, drink from 2016.
This very limited block selection is too thin, herbal and green to offer much pleasure. Tannins are stemmy and overtake the fruit.
Worn saddle leather and brown spice aromas transfer onto the juicy medium-bodied frame, which becomes more sturdy on the finish.
There is an earthy, barnyard character to this Sauvignon Blanc, with a tightly herbaceous flavor overshadowed by a more rustic style. It's ready to drink, but does need food to balance that earthiness.
This opens with aromas of dark-skinned fruit, toasted oak and a whiff of coconut. The palate offers black cherry, blackberry and espresso alongside close-grained tannins that leave a somewhat astringent finish.
There's a pleasing snap to this wine, which sends up scents and flavors of peavine and petrol. It's pungent and penetrating, with lime and citrus fruit (from organically-grown grapes) at the core. Drink lightly chilled, now through 2021.
Inviting scents of hay and chamomile lead the nose while the succulent palate offers juicy lemon, mature apple, peach and Mediterranean herb. Bright acidity lifts the finish.
The mini-trend to making white Pinot Noir is taking off in Oregon, and the wines get better with each new vintage. There's not a trace of color here, but plenty of flavor, headed with chunky apple and white peach fruit. Overall fruit-forward describes this best, with some of the flesh of a good stainless Chardonnay.
The smell of red and yellow apple pervades the entire wine with fresh, appetizing fruitiness. There is a slight bitter edge to the wine but ample concentration and fruitiness at its lively core. Drink soon while aromas are fresh and fragrant.
This well-crafted wine is reflective of the vintage, which brought its share of challenges. Tea-leaf flavors run throughout, along with quite light red fruits and plenty of acid. The finish is on the green side, but not so much that it's detrimental. Drink this wine while cellaring the bigger wines from riper years.
Fragrant lemon blossom, citrus, beeswax and almond aromas carry over to the bright palate along with juicy lime, nectarine zest and dried herb. It finishes on a tangy saline note.
This is straightforward, well-made tank-fermented fizz at a bargain price. Chardonnay and Pinot Noir offer hints of toasted brioche and lemon curd, finishing crisp and clean.
Sheer tones of lemon, tart pineapple and lime invigorate the nose and palate of this feather-light Auslese. Its juicy tangerine sweetness makes it refreshingly gulpable, but a dust of pollen on the finish lends nuance. Drink now through 2020.
Full-bodied and dry in style, this wine has a nice, gripping texture, plenty of fruit flavors, and accents like black pepper. It's built more for the dinner table than drinking alone, because the firm tannins and good acidity will be great with meat or fowl.
Aromas and flavors of overripe fruit like raisins and dried plums distinguish this full-bodied but soft-textured wine sourced from a 90-year-old vineyard. With very little tannin or acidity and all that late-harvest character, it tastes fat and happy.
Smooth and very tasty, this wine seems infused with wild berry flavors and has an easy, gliding texture despite very full body. The intense fruitiness tastes almost sweet.
This brawny wine has attractive oaky, smoky, spicy aromas, generous fruit and spice flavors, full body and a good, gripping layer of tannin to add texture.
Made with Zibibbo and Moscato grapes, this fortified wine offers heady aromas of mature apricot, candied lemon drop and a hint of thyme. The round, one-dimensional palate shows acacia honey and dried figs.
This is a bright focused wine with a taut sense of balance, and flavors that are both rich and tangy. Cranberry aromas meet dark chocolate flavors on a tightrope of good acidity and tannins.
Clean, saline-driven aromas of apple and minerals filter into a round, plump, fresh palate. This tastes of lime, green apple and green herbs, while a cucumber note comes up on a juicy, tangy finish.
A good tannic edge to this Gonfrier family wine gives it structure and places it in the food category. With plenty of acidity, it is also refreshing, textured at the end with a lift of zesty lemon.
This Slovenian sparkling wine is made from 100% Ribolla Gialla in the Charmat method. It has aromas of green apple, brioche, toast and hazelnut. In the mouth, the bubbles are pleasant and prepare your palate for flavors of apple, hazelnut and toasted almond.
Peach and apple aromas are soft and easy, maybe even a touch cidery. Overall, this is a standard but well-made Albariño, with flavors of nectarine and cider. Drink immediately.
This wine is serious in style, from the deep, dark color to the tempting touch of oak in the aroma to the plump but tangy fruit flavors. Its full body and nicely tannic texture gives it some grip on the palate.
Fresh apple blossoms, lemon-lime soda and fragrant key lime pie aromas waft off of this bottling from the hillside vineyard that was one of the first in California to offer this grape. Similar key lime flavors show on the palate as does freshly squeezed pear juice, which offers a ripe, rounded character.
From vines that are at least 25 years old, this wine is rounded and soft. It has red fruit concentration, a lively wine that is also full in the mouth. It is a wine that could age a few more months and will be better from late 2016.
This red blend is comprised of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 15% Saperavi and 5% Rara Neagra. It has aromas of black plum, saddle leather, black pepper and menthol. In the mouth there are flavors of sour cherry and dried plums with a velvety tannic finish.
This is a ripe, plump rosé that's highly “smashable,” as young Aussies would say. Mixed red berry fruit is underscored by a dash of lime on the finish. Drink now.
This wine may have potential in the years to come, but is still searching for its soul at this young age. Aromas of dried black cherries and strawberries meet with black tea, juniper and a touch of tar on the nose. The palate is framed in a foamy acidity, offering plum and squeezed blackberry fruit, but dominated with a very herbal character that's still integrating.
This Slovenian Cabernet Sauvignon has aromas of bramble, pencil lead and red plum. It is soft on entry into the mouth with flavors of black plum, black raspberry and a soft, sweet tannic finish.
This wine sources fruit from throughout Napa Valley, as well as 9% from Lake County and 1% from the Sierra Foothills, incorporating all five red Bordeaux varieties and a smidgen of Syrah. It's juicy in black currant, with a tension of acidity and a smooth, simple focus, aged in both French and American oak.
A subdued nose of crushed oak leaf whispers with the slightest hint of red berry. The palate is oak-spiced and gentle: think tart red plum with cinnamon. This is fresh and light bodied for a red, but has ample charm.
This late release is an unusual blend of Syrah, Baco Noir, Tempranillo and Dolcetto. All are strengths of the AVA, though rarely blended together. The extra bottle age has smoothed the rough edges, yielding a pleasant-drinking wine with flavors of strawberry preserves, citrus peel, and a touch of malt powder.
Waxy lemon rind and blossom notes accent this off-dry Riesling full of ripe, almost preserved peach flavor. Briskly textured and fresh in acidity, it's an uncomplicated, drinkable wine. Enjoy now through 2019.
Smoky leather, concentrated red-cherry fruit and crushed-brick aromas show on the nose of this bottling. More cherries and cranberries appear on the palate, where rocky flavors and dark spices keep the sip lively against a fairly rigid structure, five years in.
Strawberry jam, espresso, toast, menthol and dark spice lead the nose. The straightforward, rather lean palate offers dried cherry, star anise and a hint of tobacco alongside firm, fine-grained tannins that grip the finish.
Pollen and dusty minerals lend an earthy savoriness to lemon, saffron and honeysuckle in this off-dry Riesling. The palate is bright and brisk, finishing on a delicately honeyed note. Drink now through 2019.
This Merlot has a nose of violets, cherry cola and talc powder. In the mouth, it tastes like red berries, blackberries and finishes with touch of milk chocolate.
Laudun is considered one of the top communes for white varieties in the Southern Rhône. This cuvée, from the region's cooperative cellar, is a vibrant, refreshing wine that combines modest pineapple fruit, with hints of wet stone and honey. Drink now.
Dusty, chalky tannin and earth provide character to this blend of 48% Cabernet Sauvignon and 52% Sangiovese that is smoothly tannic. Coffee and cocoa provide a savory aside to the fruitiness of dried cherry and cranberry.
Mild aromas of dried stone fruit and maple syrup come together on this full-bodied dessert wine. The sweet, one-dimensional palate delivers dried apricot, acacia honey and a hint of toasted walnut.
Aromas of scorched earth, game and a whiff of farmyard lead the nose. The palate offers dried black cherry, leather, anise and sage alongside bracing but fleeting tannins. It finishes abruptly, leaving a rather astringent close.
This wine is superripe and fruit-forward, loaded with black cherry and plum fruit. It might even be a bit warm on the palate, but ends on a supple, silky note. Drink now–2020.
A pleasant nose of peach, vanilla and pineapple custard grows quite boisterous and banana-like as this wine opens up. Peachy flavors show on the palate, where the vanilla and cake flavors are cut by a tight line of lime skin.
An aroma like red-apple skin and modest red cherry and plum flavors make a good combination in this medium-bodied, subtly styled wine. It tastes dry, nicely crisp, yet smooth in texture.
Spicy in a complexity of ginger and vanilla-kissed oak, this wine is made from 15-year-old Wente selection vines. Layered in lemon, lime and green apple, it features a slab of tropical pineapple on the finish. Buttery dishes will pair well.
Aromas of mulberry, savory herb, green tea, vanilla and spice lead to medium-bodied, easy-drinking cherry flavors.
Forest floor, iris, menthol, mature blackberry and leather aromas unfold on this firmly structured red. On the palate, ground pepper, licorice and a green note of powdered sage accent a core of mature black cherry. An assertive tannic backbone provides support but leaves a somewhat gritty, astringent finish.
Dense and hearty, this has subtle aromas of stewed prune, espresso and French oak. The brawny palate offers blackberry extract, licorice, ground pepper and the heat of evident alcohol alongside tightly packed, close-grained tannins that leave an astringent finish. Give the tannins another year or two to unfurl then drink up before the remaining fruit dries up.
What a great wine for the price. This doesn't have too much tannin, but instead features plenty of tempting black cherry and olive flavors. It's a delicious, dry wine in a classic style.
Minty, earthy aromas suggest Christmas spice and fruit cake. This is saturated but a bit soupy and drying. Flavors of prune, plum, raisin and spices are a touch stewed, while this finishes ripe but short on freshness.
Aromas of scorched earth, prune and dark cooking spice lead the nose while the mature palate shows raisin, dried berry, leather and a hint of anise. Smooth but fleeting tannins indicate this has seen better days. Drink now.
This sparkling Riesling smells of canned yellow peaches and apricots. It is effervescent on entry with flavors of white peach nectar and white flowers. There is a slight sweetness in the finish.
A blend of 80% Sangiovese and 20% Merlot, this robust wine shows the heat of the vintage. It opens with aromas that recall scorched earth, espresso, French oak, dark spice and a balsamic note while the warm palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, licorice and menthol framed in bracing tannins. The finish is dominated by evident alcohol that throws it somewhat off-balance.
This wine has aromas of freshly mowed grass, peaches and white flowers. It is slightly sweet with flavors of canned peach, white peach juice and apricot nectar.
Dark berry, truffle, toast and kitchen spice aromas meld in the glass. On the palate, notes of roasted coffee bean, powdered sage and ground pepper accent a core of dried black cherry while assertive tannins provide the framework. It ends on an astringent note.
Produced from old vines grown on the property, this fruity wine is packed full of red berries. It is well balanced between fruitiness and acidity, with just a light touch of tannin to give this ready-to-drink wine its shape.
This is a fruity wine, full of herbal and apple flavors. The vines are planted on slopes across the Loire from Sancerre, giving minerality as well as juicy acidity. Young and fresh, the wine will benefit from waiting a few months more. Drink from early 2017.
Aromas of marmalade, squeezed lime, red apple and apple blossoms hit the nose on this bottling from the Morgan Hill area producer. Ripe with Gala apple and pear flesh, the palate is also cut with lime juice and tangerine skin.
Underbrush, sunbaked earth, cured meat, menthol, toast and mature plum aromas unfold in the glass. The ripe palate is mature and offers dried black, cherry, truffle, licorice, espresso and a funky hint of game alongside firm but somewhat fleeting tannins that leave a drying finish.
With its bitter cherry flavors and light, smoky tannins, this perfumed wine has a richer juicy element in the background. Lightly textured, it's more about fruit that is up front and refreshing. Drink now, although the wine will be better from 2017.
This fruity, light wine is full of red berries. The tannins are there, playing a supporting role to the intense fruitiness and acidity that's typical of the vintage. This wine will develop quickly, so drink from 2017.
Very herbal and grassy, this crisp wine emphasizes fruit rather than texture. It is ripe, fruity with citrus and gooseberry flavors that are heightened by the acidity. It's a wine to drink now.
Produced from young vines, this is a fresh, fruity, and crisp wine. It has attractive apple and pear flavors, brightened further by citrus overtones. Drink this attractive wine now.
This blend of Friulano, Malvasia Istriana and Pinot Bianco has ripe pear, fragrant yellow flower, herb and graphite aromas. The elegant, medium-bodied palate doles out yellow apple, candied lemon drop and bitter almond hints, with fresh acidity.
Structured and alluring, this opens with yellow stone fruit, tomato vine and chopped herb aromas. The enveloping palate doles out juicy yellow peach, grapefruit and savory thyme notes while tangy acidity lends balance.
This medium-bodied white delivers mature pear, yellow apple and white peach aromas and flavors. It's riper and rounder than usual but also boasts terrific freshness and elegance for the hot vintage.
This tinglingly fresh bottling offers compelling kumquat, Asian pear and flint aromas. The palate delivers the savory style of Santa Cruz mountain fruit, with faint caramel hints highlighting its nectarine, vanilla and French toast flavors.
Fresh, clean and varietal, this pushes fleshy pear flavors with a light hint of grapefruit. The presence in the mouth is full and satisfying, with a touch of honeysuckle, and the juicy finish lingers deliciously.
Spicy, peppery, charred oak aromas meet rich blackberry and boysenberry flavors in this expressive, full-bodied and dry wine. It's rather heavy on the oak, which serves to add complexity and firm tannin, keeping it well-structured through the spicy finish.
Pear and herb scents combine for a savory, fruity nose. The palate plays out its lovely, yeasty savoriness with hints of sage and fern. Citrus freshness animates and enlivens the lovely midpalate texture, leaving a clean and very refreshing finish.
As densely built as its name suggests, this wine is grippy with black fruit and robust tannin, its full-bodied concentration laced with integrated oak. Brooding blackberry and black cherry dominate the midpalate, with a one-two punch of chocolate and tobacco, finishing with clove and pepper spice.
A touch of ripe stone fruit plays amidst lighter lemon scents on the nose of this wine. The palate has an edge of pithy grapefruit, adding zesty liveliness and a pleasant bitter tone. The finish is lip-smackingly fresh, lasting and dry, making you want to sip more.
Conference pear and yellow Mirabelle plum notes make an appearance in this wine. The palate, which has some noticeable spritz, evokes more green citrus with its dry slenderness. Yet, it finishes full-fruited.
This wine bursts with grapefruit aromas and continues with vivid lemon, lime and herb flavors on the palate. It smells dry and tart, but tastes more rich and layered, its tangy citrus character persisting well into the finish.
From the mountains above the winery, this blends 39% Cabernet Sauvignon, 34% Cabernet Franc, 24% Petit Verdot and 3% Malbec. The result is a harmonious palate of dried herb, cedar and pungent violet flavors. Full-bodied concentration makes it rugged, accented with toasted oak.
Gritty tarry slightly gaseous aromas of jammy black fruits are a bit less than precise. This feels flush but soft around the edges. Blackened berry and black-plum flavors are lightly charred and chocolaty, while this tastes of black pepper and shows some heat on the finish. Drink through 2022.
This full-bodied and robustly concentrated wine has chocolate and cherry aromas, rich and ripe plum and blackberry flavors and layers of chocolate and vanilla on the palate and finish. It feels broad and juicy in texture, too.
Bold, succulent black cherry and currant flavors combine with softer, more elegant notions of graphite, coffee and clove in this well-made, full-bodied, 100% varietal wine. Volcanic soils comprise the Sonoma Mountain slope where the vineyard is located, contributing a gravelly hint of reduction.
Softly structured and boldly ripe, this 100% varietal wine from the famous site shows strong red cherry and raspberry fruit wrapped in swathes of cinnamon and clove. Full bodied and firm in tannins, it delivers chocolate and tobacco accents to complement the fruit.
A considerable step up in quality from the basic Yealands Sauvignon Blanc, this offering boasts attractive aromas of white grapefruit and pea tendrils. There's a silky texture and green, grassy elements on the palate, but they never stray too far into vegetal, finishing zesty and clean.
Mild notes of tomato leaf accent this wine's refreshing white-grapefruit aromas and flavors. It's medium in body and dry, finishing long and elegant. Drink now.
The estate wine of Coutinel is dominated by the local Négrette grape. With the addition of 15% Syrah and (unusual for this part of the world) 15% Gamay, the wine is structured while also juicy. Soft tannins and black fruits are shot through with an attractive perfumed character. Drink from 2018.
This estate wine is packed with attractive fruit. With grapefruit and orange-zest flavors, it is tightly crisp. Set against that are the ripe red-currant and berry fruitiness, layers of acidity and a pinch of pepper. Drink this refreshing wine now.
This is an attractive blend of Grenache and Syrah, giving a smooth wine that has just the right amount of acidity. Red currant and Bartlett pear flavors give the wine its fruity side. It is ready to drink.
The main estate wine from Roubine is a rich, ripe and fruity with a light edge of spice. It has a soft character, the result of the malolactic fermentation reducing the acidity. That gives a great balance between the red fruits and tangy zesty aftertaste. Drink now.
Under the same ownership as Château Roubine, this estate has old vines, some up to 60-years-old. The wine is rich and with concentration as well as a crisper edge. It is full of red-berry fruits, sharpened with red-currant acidity. This is a ripe wine that will be better from late 2017.
Pacherenc wines are the white counterpart to red Madiran, grown in the same area. This dry wine is a blend of Gros and Petit Manseng and the rare Arrufiac. It is a lightly honeyed wine with fine acidity and a really juicy fruity citrus and white-fruit-flavored aftertaste. Drink now.
Pascal Savoret is the only producer with vines actually in the village (as distinct from the appellation) of Madiran, a mere population of 430. He has produced a dense and tannic wine, packed with woody dark tannins. The black fruits and concentrated dusty texture promise further aging for this Tannat wine. Drink from 2020.
Feral strawberry grabs all the attention in this wildly fierce, high-acid wine that packs a punch in texture, tannin power and body. Small amounts of Syrah, Mourvèdre and Petite Sirah figure into the blend, which is made in minuscule amounts.
Nectarine and white-flower aromas are young and pulsing. This Viura feels fresh and elegant, with grip and weight. Oak-driven flavors are controlled and sit atop a white-fruit base, while this finishes clean and easy, with finesse.
Deep penetrating sour-cherry and raspberry flavors are balanced against brisk blood-orange acidity in this dry Pinot Noir rosé. Full bodied and slightly silky on the palate, it's a satisfyingly mouthfilling but invigorating wine to enjoy now through the fall months.
Elegant, savory and balanced, this opens with delicate orchard fruit, Mediterranean scrub and wet stone scents. The vibrant, ethereal palate delivers lemon, nectarine and pear fruit, buttressed by crisp acidity. A savory mineral note gives it a mouthwatering finish.
This is a powerfully ripe wine. It has layers of great black fruits and firm tannins. Both indicate a wine for aging. It has a concentrated juicy character along with acidity and a dry structured core. Drink this wine from 2019.
Here's a solid wine full of both tannins and dark fruits. New oak barrels give a spicy character while supporting the fruitiness. A blend of 70% Merlot and 30% Cabernet Sauvignon from only 10 acres, it is developing into a rich wine that still needs time. Drink this impressive wine from 2018.
Blackberry and plum aromas come with wood-smoke, spice and exotic notes. The palate is full, rubbery and bouncy in feel. Flavors of ripe plum and boysenberry are oaky and loamy, while the finish piles on generous amounts of toast, graphite, licorice and black-fruit decadence. Drink through 2020.
This bright and well-balanced sparkler leads with attractive aromas of fresh lemon and orange slices, lightly toasted brioche and subtle fynbos herbs. The palate is creamy and smooth, with crisp acidity and medium carbonation that lifts and refreshes the finish. Delicious now, or hold through 2017 for a more mature character and additional depth.
Soft and pretty, this estate grown wine offers plum and cherry fruit, with notes of cedar and smoke from aging in one third new French and Hungarian oak. The structure rests on stiff but proportionate tannins, giving good balance and medium length. Drink now through 2020.
This fresh, fruit-driven wine opens with aromas of black pepper, blackberry and violet. It's not overly complex but very tasty and bright, with berry juice, cola, sassafras and a pinch of spearmint.
The lovely fragrance recalls crushed blue flower and wild berry. The refreshing, frothy palate doles out pink grapefruit, candied cherry and nectarine alongside brisk acidity. Pair it with pizza or pasta topped with dense tomato sauce.
Fruity and dark, this Bordeaux-style blend is two thirds Cabernet Sauvignon and one third a mix of the four other grapes. The result is a wine with stiff tannins and excellent structure, with clean dark-fruit and forest-floor flavors alongside streaks of iron and caramel.
This opens with aromas of ripe berry, pipe tobacco, leather and espresso. The palate offers mature black cherry, coffee, vanilla and mocha alongside firm, drying tannins. It finishes on a licorice note.
Fragrances of black cherry, bell pepper and spice set the stage for flavors of black cherry, strawberry, smoke and black tea. There is a pleasing aura of brightness overlaid on soft tannins, with a surprising note of apricot on the finish.
Pretty aromas suggest violet, rose, strawberry and mint. The vibrant palate offers red cherry, crushed raspberry and cinnamon alongside supple tannins and bright acidity. Enjoy through 2017.
This opens with aromas of oak, espresso, mocha and plum. The firm palate offers oak extract, chocolate, licorice and black cherry alongside drying wood tannins.
On the rich side, this is a ripe and fruity wine. Its mineral texture is comfortably cushioned within an aromatic white fruit character that adds juicy acidity to the mix. It's a delicious wine that could age a few months more.
Intense aromas recall forest floor, tobacco, dark berry and grilled herb. The structured palate offers dried black cherry, licorice, black pepper and balsamic notes alongside big, brooding tannins. The warmth of alcohol shows on the midpalate.
This is an intense, extreme wine made from Nerello Mascalese vines planted in the 1940s. It's handcrafted, with no selected yeasts or added sulfites, and aged in terra cotta vessels. It's loaded with smoky mineral, concentrated black cherry, black pepper, cinnamon and notes of balsamic herbs framed by solid, velvety tannins. The only criticism is a slight fizzy sensation, but total perfection isn't what this wine is about.
While blackberry and cherry notes are lush and ripe on the nose, this Finger Lakes Zweigelt is surprisingly elegant on the palate. Sour cherry and tart plum flavors are concentrated and juicy, but lively in feel. The finish is extended by a fringe of fine, polished tannins.
An 85% Zinfandel with smaller amounts of Petite Sirah, Mourvèdre and Syrah, this red offers sanguine, rustic plum, cinnamon spice and a concentration of bright red fruit, a lingering grip on the finish.
Using Ripanço, an old technique of destemming the grapes after harvest with wooden rods, the wine has intense color and a smooth, rich character. It is rounded and soft, with a light layer of tannins offering backbone to the generous fruitiness. Drink after 2015.
This shows evolved aromas of stewed plum, resin, varnish and leather with a whiff of vanilla. The palate offers dried black cherry steeped in spirits, black pepper, notes of espresso, mocha and baking spice alongside soft, muted tannins. Drink through 2018.
A directly appealing wine showing notes of stone fruit, mineral and toasty barrel spice. It's light and airy in style, offering a pleasing sense of delicacy and restraint on the long finish.
Dry and rather light-bodied, this has an authentic light color and an intriguing mix of flavors: a hint of rosemary, tasty raspberry and dried cherry. Lip-smacking tannins and good acidity give texture and balance. Grapes come from 100-year-old vines.
Maduro cigar and cherry brandy aromas power the nose on this heavily extracted, single-vineyard Sangiovese that Dave Corey makes under his Turchi label. Nothing like Chianti, aside from the decent tannins and acidity, this is all prune and plum soda on the palate. Serve with herb-crusted steak.
Yellow summer melon and green apple make for a crisp, clean, bright and beautiful nose. The palate is peachy, with a citrus and cinnamon-apple flavored finish, walking the fine, fun line between brisk austerity and fruity richness.
This dark, heavily oaked Cabernet is lemony on the nose, but also full of typical cassis and black fruit aromas. The palate is muscular, with firm tannins. Flavors of black fruit are matched by resiny oak, leading to additional notes of licorice on the finish. Drink through 2017.
From one of the most esteemed vineyards in the denomination, this features aromas of oak, toast, black berry and a whiff of rubber. The palate offers plum, black cherry, roasted coffee bean, spearmint and vanilla alongside bracing tannins.
Full-bodied and dry, this has a very deep, saturated color and aromas of spicy oak, raspberries and cherries. With velvety texture, fine tannins and a lingering finish, it's well structured and youthful tasting. It should improve through 2017.
Ripe, pristine pineapple, mango and honeydew burst from this luscious semi-dry Riesling. It's juicy and lush, boasting a tropical fruit flavor, but also structured and sprightly, with a surprising mineral finish.
Certified French organic with this vintage, this 100% Merlot is ripe, full-bodied and already showing its potential richness. Terroir-driven black fruits and generous tannins give a warm character to the wine that is then backed by black fruits and final acidity. This is a generous wine from the Verdier family, ready to age. Drink from 2018.
A moderately aromatic wine with notes of melted butter, vanilla, plum, herbs and woodspice. The tannins are firm and tightly wound, needing some time to come together. Best after 2016.
All the heat of the Alentejo is encapsulated in this wine. It is rich, dense, and warmly ripe, with gentle tannins that wrap around the fruit structure. Red berry and spice, with lively acidity offers a well-rounded wine that will be ready to drink after 2015.
The aromas of roasted coffee bean, chocolate, and dark raspberry are light, while the palate is elegant in style with a good sense of balance and a lingering finish.
A mix of blueberry, blackberry and cherry fruit can't completely mask the earthy, stemmy streak that runs through this wine. Reductive and tight, it will require substantial airing to open up.
This is a wood-aged Touriga Nacional that is smooth and rich. It shows some extraction offering dark chocolate flavors that cover the fruit, yet happen to provide a ripe, rounded feel. Drink from 2017.
A vanilla bean element leads the nose on this wine, with cherry, olallieberry and caramel syrup coming in as well. The palate isn't quite so delicious, with the vanilla flavors remaining alongside woody elements, purple fruits and black olives.
Black and green olive tapenade and ripe plum come together around a soft, juicy yet ultimately tannic expression of the variety, given 14% Malbec and 5% Cabernet Sauvignon as worthy complements.
Popcorn, mustard, pickle brine and a heavy blast of oak create a barrel-driven bouquet. This is acidic and juicy on the palate, but also resiny. Flavors of briny citrus, nectarine and raw oak finish long and woody, with a cidery aftertaste.
Light and pleasant, this offers some punchy phenolics but rather limpid fruit. It spent eight months in one-third new French oak.
Fresh and fruity, this simple red doles out wild cherry, crushed raspberry and strawberry alongside tang acidity and smooth tannins. This would match well with pizza or light pasta dishes. Drink now.
Passion fruit and citrus aromas are straightforward and a bit sharp. This feels lemony yet wan, with tangy, lean flavors of lemon-lime mixed with fresh green herbs. Notes of scallion and tarragon blend with lingering lime on the finish.
Spunky, lively cherry, plum and currant aromas come with a whiff of rubber and Band-Aid. This blend of Tempranillo, Carignan and Grenache is dainty, with mid-level intensity. Oaky, medicinal plum and raspberry flavors run lean and herbal on the finish, and overall this is a light-framed red that's mild in character.
No two ways about this, it's stalky and earthy on the nose, with mulchy, herbal notes. This feels pinchy and tannic, with roasted red-berry flavors that finish extremely earthy. Good mouthfeel and textural balance are saving graces.
This smooth, creamy textured wine combines bright acidity with ripe apricot and pear flavors. It is already attractive in its freshness while also having a rounder character. Drink now.
Blending Négrette with Syrah and Cabernet Franc, this rich, full-in-the-mouth rosé is ripe and packed with red berry fruits and a touch of spice. The up-front fruitiness of the wine is leavened with a fresh, crisp aftertaste.
A foundation of truffled earth and forest floor give this a rustic edge, complemented by savory herb and black tea. Weighty, it shows its backbone of oak aging well, finishing abruptly in cranberry and dark cherry.
Mauve in color, this wine—an ode to Hearst Ranch architect Julia Morgan—shows strawberry pie and pink rose petals on the nose. Mouthwatering acidity on the palate is a touch boozy, with flavors of ripe strawberries, raspberries and lemon zest.
This is a fruity wine offering a strong mineral  element. It has apples and citrus notes that are cut with a tangy texture and a bite of acidity. Drink from 2016.
This typically fresh, lemon- and herbal-accented wine is light as a feather and deliciously aromatic. Drink this carefree wine this summer.
This warm, robust expression of Sangiovese opens with aromas of underbrush, scorched soil and mature black-skinned fruit. The densely extracted, monolithic palate offers blackberry extract, coffee and black pepper alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish. It lacks fruit richness and freshness. You'll also notice the heat of evident alcohol on the finish.
Not too rich or heavy, this classic, dry wine has plenty of personality emerging from the mint, cedar and anise aromas, crisp raspberry and cranberry flavors and medium body.
This mature Tempranillo shows aromas of fig and sherry vinegar along with raisin. A ripe yet pinched feeling palate deals aged flavors of raisin, caramel and toffee, while a chocolaty finish is low on vital fruit. This gran reserva exhibits multiple sherry-like characteristics.
Aromas of tomato, spiced cherry, leather and fresh herbs are clean and appealing. A standard, balanced mouthfeel is medium in body, with dry, woody flavors of peppery plum and berry fruits. Minty and darker on the finish.
This ripe, smooth and juicy wine shows plenty of Malbec tannins as well as fresh berry flavors. Still young, it has a bright character that will certainly calm down and show its more structured side. Drink from 2016.
This copper-colored sparkler opens with aromas of white flowers and bread crust. The palate offers dried cherry, bitter walnut and toast alongside brisk acidity.
This opens with aromas of wet leaves, forest floor, menthol and prune. Made from Alicante and a drop of Montepulciano, the palate delivers mocha, crushed herb, licorice and a fig note alongside evolved tannins. It's already tired, so drink soon.
A slightly earthy aroma leads to rich, ripe berry and cherry flavors that seem to coat the mouth and linger on the finish. It's medium bodied and almost soft, with little acidity or tannin detectable. All that opulent fruit flavor keeps it pleasing.
Fresh raspberry and plum aromas lead to a crisp, zesty palate, with a touch of oaky weight. Red plum, pie cherry and raspberry flavors are not overly defined but they are clean and moderately elegant.
This is funky up front, with aromas of Russian dressing and briny citrus. The mouthfeel is chunky and foamy, while the flavor profile runs heavy and sweet, with candied citrus and molasses notes. A weighty finish tastes of brown sugar.
Heavy barrel aromas suggest sawdust, while a grassy, herbal accent brings a green character into play. Drawing and a bit high in acidity, this tastes herbal, with a pyrazinic note of eucalyptus. The minty finish is brightened by lasting acidity.
Richly defined sprinklings of cinnamon and black pepper give this wine an Asian-spice character that's appealing on the nose. From there it develops a rustic leathery texture around resolved oak that builds power and tannin content on the finish.
This blend of 70% Sangiovese, 10% Merlot, 10% Cabernet Franc and 10% Petit Verdot offers faint aromas of menthol, underbrush and a whiff of blue flowers. The menthol note carries over to the palate, along with a hint of anise, but the fruit is completely dried up, leaving an abrupt, astringent finish.
A blend of Sangiovese and Syrah, this opens with aromas of toasted oak, roasted coffee beans, wood-driven spice and a whiff of barnyard. The palate shows dried black fruit, black pepper and a gamy note. The bracing tannins are still tightly wound but it's shy on freshness and fruit richness so drink sooner rather than later.
Misceo is a GSM blend, vinified in a mix of new, once-filled and neutral barrels. The woody flavors and aromas dominate, with hints of sandalwood, cocoa and dust around tart blue fruits.
This is a light, crisp white from a tremendous vineyard source. A mix of cucumber and white peach at the heart of this wine makes it seem lighter than it is. Oaky caramel vanilla closes out the finish.
While delicate and demure, this light-bodied Pinot Noir rosé revitalizes the palate with a crush of mineral intensity. Whispers of blossom and strawberry peek through a moderately long finish.
Aromas of rose, violet, sour cherry and baking spice make a promising initial impression but the palate is on the lean side offering raw red berry, clove, sage and a hint of tobacco. Grainy tannins leave an astringent finish. Let the tannins soften up for another few years and then drink to capture the remaining fruit.
An intense, mineral-driven wine, this is tight and very textured. Its dryness is mitigated by hints of riper mango and apricot that fill out the palate. The structure and the tense acidity show this wine is still young. Drink from 2017.
The spritz you see in the glass translates into a tongue-tickling experience in the mouth. Fresh flavors of orange, grapefruit and pineapple are supported with moderate acidity. This is not a sparkling wine, but you'll want to drink this while it retains that refreshing hint of fizz.
This is a full and spicy wine that is rich with black plum and berry flavors. The wood comes through strongly with its cedar and pepper character. The contrast with fresher acidity gives this wine its balance. Drink now.
Crisp and fresh, this has an attractive tight texture that contrasts with the red berry fruits and lively acidity. It's a real apéritif style of wine, light and fruity.
This has a well-aged aroma plus tangy raspberry and cranberry flavors. It offers good balance between flavor, crispness and firm tannins. Most of all, it conveys a personality that mirrors this grape variety's Italian roots. It's dry, medium bodied and slightly astringent in texture.
Pale orange-pink in color, this is a crisp, tight and mineral-textured wine. It is fresh in the bottle, with red currant and grapefruit flavors. This fruity bottling could be held until mid-2016 to fill out the texture.
From 100% estate-grown fruit, this 100% varietal wine is dusty and dark with elements of pencil shavings, cedar and cassis. With that herbal and earthy intensity giving it defined character, it remains medium bodied and textured on the palate, with a saltiness to the finish.
With a touch of wood aging, this ripe and creamy wine has a light edge of toast. Crisp with lemon and ripe with apricots, it has a fresh character that is filled out and given richness with a touch of honey at the end. Drink from 2016.
This Pinot does not shy away from some sharp, slightly bitter herbal flavors, but keeps them in balance against a core of tart cranberry fruit. It's well made and solid, with medium-long persistence.
Straightforward and savory, this easygoing red offers aromas of wild berry, violet and a whiff of dark kitchen spice. The vibrant palate offers juicy black cherry, licorice and ground pepper set in a frame of racy acidity.
Well integrated in terms of barrel use (listed as 60% used French oak and 40% new), this features a robust exuberance of fruit, from Asian pear to Meyer lemon. Spicy with a touch of nutmeg and ginger, it hones a fine line of minerality throughout.
This honeyed spicy Spätlese seems straightforward in fruit, but its racy, nerve-tingling energy is electrifying. Fresh apple and pears are revitalized by streaks of lemon, lime and grapefruit that linger through a moderately long finish.
Sourced from old-vine Wädenswil clones, this effort carries the new Elkton AVA designation. Pretty raspberry and strawberry fruit is set in lightly toasty tannins. This is a lovely everyday Pinot Noir with some density.
Cherry-vanilla surrounds a flank of big oak, while classic notes of baked strawberry also come into play. A brawny, full-bodied expression of the variety, given 6% Mourvèdre and 6% Syrah, it has good bones and acidity lurking beneath the power.
Lush aromas of black cherry, vanilla, kola nut and blackberry fudge pack lots of action into this bottling. The palate confirms the complexity, with blueberry and black cherry backed by pipe tobacco, dried marjoram and a pencil lead-driven structure.
This wine is a blend of De Ponte, Schindler and Kalita fruit, smooth and supple, though falling a bit flat in terms of mouthfeel. Leafy herbal components come up soonest, followed with sweet barrel notes, from 15 months in half new French oak.
A dusty, cigar-smoke character on the nose of this blend of 52% Syrah and 48% Cabernet Sauvignon spices up aromas of strawberry fruit and rotting roses. The palate combines complex cranberry fruits with Kalamata olive, thyme and pencil lead.
This is a delicious refreshing wine with great acidity coupled with ripe white and yellow fruits. The richness is cut by minerality, fragrant acidity and lemon curd. It is still young and will be better from 2016.
This is a rich, very rich wine that is packed with tropical fruits, generous apricot and peach flavors and spice. It is full in the mouth, showing some pepper from the alcohol that spoils the otherwise fruity character. The aftertaste does introduce some freshness.
Tight and tart, this entry-level bottling marries sharp fruit flavors of raspberry and cherry to a high-acid foundation. It's fruit-forward, perfect to gulp down with a favorite sandwich or football food.
Pretty in pink and orange hues, this stainless-steel-fermented charmer has a candied orange flavor that's delicious, followed by fresh, crisp strawberry and tangerine-laced acidity. Medium bodied, it ends with a burst of peach.
About 30% was aged in new French oak, the rest in neutral wood. A bit closed, it offers tight, tart rhubarb and cherry fruit, with a fading wash of milk chocolate. It's a lighter style in a lighter vintage, but nicely balanced and drinking well.
Aromas of plum, pressed violet, toasted oak and a whiff of exotic spice lead the nose. The palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, licorice, espresso and black pepper alongside fine-grained tannins.
This full-bodied wine has an elegant bouquet that invites, before pomegranate, plum and orange peel figure in on the palate. Powerful on the finish, it features hints of coconut and vanilla around the leathery texture.
Lime zest and freshly cut grass lend a particularly invigorating cool to this dry, delicate Riesling. It's brashly mineral on the palate, finishing tightly with a bracing shower of acidity.
Plush, showy aromas of candied apples, caramelized pears, condensed honeysuckle, yellow peach, quinine and cinnamon spice show on the nose of this wine. The palate takes a sour turn, with lemon peels, pear skins and a touch of chamomile.
By rights, the Herrenweg vineyard in Turckheim should be a Grand Cru. Certainly in the hands of Zind-Humbrecht it behaves like one. This is a powerful, rich and totally spicy wine. It has weight and pepper in abundance, a complex wine that's full of ripe fruits and an opulent aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
This aptly expresses the characteristics of wines from the McMinnville AVA. A steely, peppery, gun-metal streak runs up and down the spine, with tight, compact blue and black fruits, ripping acidity, firm tannins and a light suggestion of root beer. It's all in place in a wine that seems destined for a life of two decades or longer.
The Legacy estate reserve sources the original mid-1970s vines. It's a delicate, high-wire act, balanced on a bed of rose petals. From the floral aromatics into flavors of red currant and black cherry, it takes you on a well-modulated joyride. Veins of anise, cola and clay add complexity, as the details expand into a lingering finish. Drink 2015–2030.
At almost two-thirds Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a dark, intense, cassis-laden wine. It's full-bodied and richly textured, with obvious cellaring potential of at least 7 or 8 years. Dark chocolate and gentle coffee notes creep in on the midpalate, while the long, mouthwatering finish features layers of soft tannins.
The 2011 Mate's Vineyard appears to have more focus and drive than the Hunting Hill, but fewer curves. Toasted nuts garnish pineapple and tangerine fruit, while the finish is long, tight and richly textured. This should be long-lived by New Zealand Chardonnay standards; drink now–2022.
In 2012, my favorite of the Kumeu River Chardonnays is the medium- to full-bodied, creamy-textured offering from Hunting Hill. Think streusel-topped citrus, but dry, with a long, harmonious finish.
From a low-yielding vineyard full of galets, or stones, comes an excellent and dark wine, with aromas of cherry pie in a mint-speckled crust along with graphite and blueberry. The palate is a swirl of cola, rooibos tea and blackberry juice, with sharper eucalyptus notes coming through on the finish.
The Wiebelsberg Grand Cru is in Andlau in the north of Alsace. Its terroir, influenced by rocks from the Vosges mountains, gives a strong minerality to this wine. It has structure, a dry heart surrounded by ripe, generous fruits. As any Grand Cru, it needs to age, so drink from 2017.
While showing sweetness, this wine also manages to retain great freshness. It's delicious, with bright green plum fruitiness as well as weight and richness. It will be a great food wine, but wait until 2018.
This is a great example of the power that can come a Grand Cru vineyard. It's opulent and dense, but more than that it has intense energy and drive. Although the wine is marked as medium sweet, the spice and pepper give it a dry, tight, nervy edge. The wine is still young and will be best from 2017.
A high-altitude vineyard has produced this delicious, crisp and cool wine. While it has weight and rich fruit, it's the enticing acidity that sets this wine apart. There's a poise to this wine that gives style while not losing any depth of apple, pear and spice flavors. Drink from 2017.
This is rich, full of spicy fruit, apricot juice and white peaches. The fruits are topped by an unctuous honey character that pushes the wine towards sweetness while keeping a fresh flavor in the background. Drink from 2017.
In line with the cool vintage, lemon-lime acidity cuts a sharp edge through this polished, pristine spätlese. Sunny white peach and honey shine on the midpalate, lending subtle sweetness and warmth to the dancing finish.
Dark violet-red in color, this is a blend of 40% Petite Sirah, 35% Petit Verdot and 25% Shiraz. A bouquet of cherry, violet and mesquite lay the groundwork for a winning mélange of savory fruit flavors—think cherry, strawberry, smoke, flint, jasmine and orange peel. Smooth tannins lead the way to an orange-rind finish, with a hint of smoke and a slight umami feeling on the palate.
Seductively rich and powerful but also refined, this opens with aromas of ripe berry, orange zest, exotic spice and leather. The firm, juicy palate delivers crunchy red cherry, crushed raspberry, anise, mineral and pipe tobacco alongside polished tannins. Drink 2016–2032.
The winery's reserve-level bottling, this has the extra concentration to warrant the designation. Tart young berry/cherry fruit carries the brunt of the midpalate. The barrel treatment is delicately balanced, bringing in nuances of toast, coconut and almond. Very well made, and cellarworthy. Drink now through 2025.
Juicy Alicante Bouschet shines in this smooth, rich wine. Dark tannins are cushioned by the ripe berry fruits and opulent texture. Wood-aging has given extra richness to this powerful and complex wine that needs time. Drink from 2017.
This wine comes from a partnership between winemaker David Galzignato of Jada Winery in Paso Robles, and Mark McWilliams of Arista Winery in Healdsburg. A devotion to Sauvignon Blanc, it succeeds with this sophisticated expression of lemon chiffon and mandarin orange that's bright and complex. With two handfuls of Sémillon to the mix, it's medium in body and length, with just the slightest suggestion of caramel-vanilla oak.
The curtain rises to smooth, lightly balsamic aromas of blackberry, black cherry and cedar. On the tongue, this Malbec is plush, smooth, chewy and a touch creamy. Elevated berry, mocha and vanilla flavors are oaky but not overdone. The finish is pure, succinct and deep, with lasting black-fruit echoes. Drink through 2019.
Keller's basic-label Riesling offers remarkable structural complexity juxtaposed with lavish fruit and flavor intensity. Dry in style, the wine is also ripe with yellow cherry and peach flavors. It's bracing with acidity and a mineral tension that's thrilling, yet not at all severe.
An old-vine, estate bottling, this offers extra layers of scents and flavors. Red fruits pile upon juicy acids, supported by a layer of stone. Big black cherry fruit holds down the substantial center, with a streak of cola running through the finish. Let this breathe an hour or two for maximum enjoyment.
Black in color and inky on the nose, this ultra-concentrated, superripe Tempranillo is smoky and toasty, with accents of graphite along with blackberry. An extracted, dense palate is braced by solid tannins and healthy acids. Blackberry, cassis and chocolate flavors conclude this rich, flashy wine. Drink 2016–2021.
Spanish broom, dried lychee, aromatic Mediterranean herb and balsamic notes are just some of the aromas of this multifaceted wine. The linear palate shows compelling depth, delivering layers of mature yellow apple, Bartlett pear, thyme, salvia and energizing mineral alongside still-bright acidity. This wine could go on for another several years at least. Drink through 2021.
This beautiful wine is already so balanced and ripe. Rich tropical and yellow fruits are lightly spiced and given a lift with the acidity. Along with that, it offers a more complex texture and mineral character. Drink from 2017.
The winery sources this fruit from a vineyard near Hollister. It delivers aromas of bramble berry, espresso-dipped cherry and allspice. Cherry and chocolate power the palate, which also benefits from lifting mint, sagebrush and eucalyptus, finishing with chopped herbs.
Honeysuckle and orange blossom aromas are pristine on this dry, luxuriously textured Riesling. Ripe melon and stone fruit flavors drench the palate in lush waves, accented by cool tones of steel and acid. Enjoy now for its lavish perfume and fruit, but even more from 2020 for intense textural complexity.
Round, earthy blackberry aromas are dressed up in dry spice and oak. A fleshy, pure palate has bounce to its step, while oaky, toasty flavors of baked black fruits, cocoa and spice finish with just the right amount of cutting acidity and flavors of baking spices. Drink this Cabernet Franc-led blend through 2020.
There's a zesty, invigorating feel to this lime-kissed spätlese, calibrated by layers of sweet, juicy peach and pear that fill out the palate. It's effortlessly breezy yet nuanced, with hints of saffron, fennel and spice.
Initially quiet apple and lemon notes intensify on the palate of this delicate auslese, showing riper, richer shades of sun-kissed peach and apricot. An electric edge of lime acidity shocks the midpalate, extending to a cool, mineral finish. It's a remarkably long, complex ride for the senses.
There's something special about this Zin, given a handful of Petite Sirah for aromatic depth. It opens with supple, high-toned raspberry and cherry before delving into a layering of dusty, cinnamon spice. Juicy, alive and fresh, it delivers a cherry-vanilla finish.
Fresh apple blossoms, lemon-lime soda and fragrant key lime pie aromas waft off of this bottling from the hillside vineyard that was one of the first in California to offer this grape. Similar key lime flavors show on the palate as does freshly squeezed pear juice, which offers a ripe, rounded character.
From vines that are at least 25 years old, this wine is rounded and soft. It has red fruit concentration, a lively wine that is also full in the mouth. It is a wine that could age a few more months and will be better from late 2016.
This red blend is comprised of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 15% Saperavi and 5% Rara Neagra. It has aromas of black plum, saddle leather, black pepper and menthol. In the mouth there are flavors of sour cherry and dried plums with a velvety tannic finish.
This is a ripe, plump rosé that's highly “smashable,” as young Aussies would say. Mixed red berry fruit is underscored by a dash of lime on the finish. Drink now.
This wine may have potential in the years to come, but is still searching for its soul at this young age. Aromas of dried black cherries and strawberries meet with black tea, juniper and a touch of tar on the nose. The palate is framed in a foamy acidity, offering plum and squeezed blackberry fruit, but dominated with a very herbal character that's still integrating.
This Slovenian Cabernet Sauvignon has aromas of bramble, pencil lead and red plum. It is soft on entry into the mouth with flavors of black plum, black raspberry and a soft, sweet tannic finish.
This wine sources fruit from throughout Napa Valley, as well as 9% from Lake County and 1% from the Sierra Foothills, incorporating all five red Bordeaux varieties and a smidgen of Syrah. It's juicy in black currant, with a tension of acidity and a smooth, simple focus, aged in both French and American oak.
A nose of fresh mint, pine and peach lead this distinctive retsina. On the palate, lemon and honey are balanced by a fresh acidity and crushed herbs. Stylish and worth savoring with or without the myriad dishes that will complement it.
Aromas of Spanish broom, citrus blossom, ripe orchard fruit and oak slowly emerge on this. Oak carries over to the linear palate along with toast, yellow apple and nectarine zest. A bitter almond note closes the drying finish.
Aromas of hay, orchard fruit and a whiff of hazelnut lead the nose while the straightforward palate offers lime, chamomile and peach. A saline note closes the finish.
Flavors like wild berries blend with smoke and rosemary in this full-bodied, full-flavored and firmly tannic wine. It is big in texture and high in aromatic intensity. Made of 72% Grenache, 19% Syrah and 9% Mourvèdre.
Cool, crisp aromas of celery, bell pepper and sea brine introduce a citrusy palate with refreshing acidity. Tangerine, grapefruit and cactus flavors finish tangy, lemony and alert.
Pommard and Wädenswil clones make up this cuvée. Chunky fruit flavors of sour plum and cherry are on display, with decent penetration and moderate length. Drink now through 2022.
From vineyards close to Meursault, this brisk white wine is nicely touched by acidity and lemon flavors. A light layer of wood gives it a broader character. The crispness of this wine brings a bright, lively aftertaste.
This effusive wine is so fruity and plush that it tastes almost sweet, as the strawberry and boysenberry jam flavors flood the tongue followed by black pepper in the wake. High in alcohol and ripeness, it would make a great pairing with chunks of Parmigiano-Reggiano.
Bold flavors and plenty of creamy texture make this full-bodied wine seem big and mouth-filling. It offers nice lemon and butter aromas, ripe pear and spicy nutmeg flavors along with a smoky overtone that lasts from the aroma to the finish.
The dainty bouquet of this Grenache-based rosé leads with aromas of white flower, red cherry and firm peach. There's a pleasant tartness to the palate, with flavors of red currant and rhubarb that finish bright and refreshing.
This late release is an unusual blend of Syrah, Baco Noir, Tempranillo and Dolcetto. All are strengths of the AVA, though rarely blended together. The extra bottle age has smoothed the rough edges, yielding a pleasant-drinking wine with flavors of strawberry preserves, citrus peel, and a touch of malt powder.
Waxy lemon rind and blossom notes accent this off-dry Riesling full of ripe, almost preserved peach flavor. Briskly textured and fresh in acidity, it's an uncomplicated, drinkable wine. Enjoy now through 2019.
This is a plump, succulent Chardonnay for drinking by the end of 2016. The apple, citrus and pear notes are pretty simple, but clean, with a long, refreshing finish.
A fruity and rich-tasting wine, this has black plum and mild oak aromas, ripe cherry and slightly savory, beefy flavors along with a nice, velvety texture. It is dry, medium bodied and drinker friendly.
The flavors of this medium-bodied wine are hearty, with bell pepper, black pepper and green olive notes, and in this vein it's tasty and fairly concentrated. The balance is good, the palate sensation is nicely dry and the finish lingers a bit.
Because of a short vintage, this Clare Valley-based winery reached down into Padthaway for fruit. The result is a broad, slightly warm wine, marked by melon, peach and apricot flavors. Drink now.
Light daffodil aromas meet with lemon curd, wet slate and the slightest touch of green apple skins. The palate is very chalky and mineral-driven, showing a bit of sour apple as it sits longer on the tongue. The finish is nicely mouth-watering.
Minerally white-fruit aromas are clean but generic. In every way, this is a modest but solid Verdejo with proper acidity and overall balance. Briny citrus is the key flavor, while the finish holds form and tastes citrusy and a touch salty.
This very floral and herbally tinged bottling shows fresh crushed thyme, black peppercorns, lavender and woody blackberries on the nose. The palate shows some of the same, but descends into a very purple Concord grape flavor.
Stalky, herbal aromas of leather, olive, asphalt and berry fruits come in front of a clampy but fresh palate with hard tannins. Briny, herbal black-plum flavors fit the common profile for Carmenère, while this is slightly astringent on the finish.
This Slovenian Chardonnay has aromas of orange, vanilla, toasted almonds and citrus blossom. The mouth delivers flavors of honeydew melon, pear and apple before a crisp acidic finish.
Stalky black cherry and cedar aromas are persuasive enough, but this Crianza also comes with less impressive scents of wet dog and burnt black fruits. Big, tannic and rough on the palate, this tastes of earthy plum, black pepper and bitterness. A drawing, tannic finish brings additional burnt, roasted flavors.
A soft shade of yellow pink, this wine shows red apple, nectarine and a shred of lime rind on the nose. The palate offers slightly sour lime and underripe raspberry flavors as well as a unique and intriguing touch of fresh herbs.
Apart from a ripe blueberry scent, the nose of this Zwiegelt and Cabernet Sauvignon blend is shy. The palate presents juicy, cinnamon-tinged blackberry and black cherry fruit, with a lovely whisper of white pepper around the edges. A very successful wine for a very ripe vintage, it has the firm tannins of Cabernet to lend appetizing balance to all the juicy fruit.
This wine's nose barely hints at ripe apple and white pepper, but the palate sings with aromas and flavors: fresh lemon, ripe and juicy red apple and a slightly herbal, grassy touch. All of this appears on a delicate, light-bodied frame enlivened by zesty acidity. The finish is long, intriguing and dry.
This wine's shy nose suggests fig leaf and citrus. Green-tinged herbal notes and faint lime fruit swish sinuously n the light-bodied palate. It's slender yet creamy, lithe and full of personality. The finish is dry and refreshing.
Layers of clove, vanilla and caramel accent this concentrated Chardonnay without being overtly flashy or cloying. It's a satisfyingly full-bodied wine with crisp lemon and red-apple flavors that maintain precision on the midpalate. The finish is long and refreshing.
The estate wine of Coutinel is dominated by the local Négrette grape. With the addition of 15% Syrah and (unusual for this part of the world) 15% Gamay, the wine is structured while also juicy. Soft tannins and black fruits are shot through with an attractive perfumed character. Drink from 2018.
This estate wine is packed with attractive fruit. With grapefruit and orange-zest flavors, it is tightly crisp. Set against that are the ripe red-currant and berry fruitiness, layers of acidity and a pinch of pepper. Drink this refreshing wine now.
This is an attractive blend of Grenache and Syrah, giving a smooth wine that has just the right amount of acidity. Red currant and Bartlett pear flavors give the wine its fruity side. It is ready to drink.
The main estate wine from Roubine is a rich, ripe and fruity with a light edge of spice. It has a soft character, the result of the malolactic fermentation reducing the acidity. That gives a great balance between the red fruits and tangy zesty aftertaste. Drink now.
Under the same ownership as Château Roubine, this estate has old vines, some up to 60-years-old. The wine is rich and with concentration as well as a crisper edge. It is full of red-berry fruits, sharpened with red-currant acidity. This is a ripe wine that will be better from late 2017.
Pacherenc wines are the white counterpart to red Madiran, grown in the same area. This dry wine is a blend of Gros and Petit Manseng and the rare Arrufiac. It is a lightly honeyed wine with fine acidity and a really juicy fruity citrus and white-fruit-flavored aftertaste. Drink now.
Pascal Savoret is the only producer with vines actually in the village (as distinct from the appellation) of Madiran, a mere population of 430. He has produced a dense and tannic wine, packed with woody dark tannins. The black fruits and concentrated dusty texture promise further aging for this Tannat wine. Drink from 2020.
Feral strawberry grabs all the attention in this wildly fierce, high-acid wine that packs a punch in texture, tannin power and body. Small amounts of Syrah, Mourvèdre and Petite Sirah figure into the blend, which is made in minuscule amounts.
Nectarine and white-flower aromas are young and pulsing. This Viura feels fresh and elegant, with grip and weight. Oak-driven flavors are controlled and sit atop a white-fruit base, while this finishes clean and easy, with finesse.
Deep penetrating sour-cherry and raspberry flavors are balanced against brisk blood-orange acidity in this dry Pinot Noir rosé. Full bodied and slightly silky on the palate, it's a satisfyingly mouthfilling but invigorating wine to enjoy now through the fall months.
This wine hits the nose with red cherry vibrancy. That almost dramatic fruit also fills the palate with its easy juiciness. This may be simple and light, but its absolute fruitiness makes it great for summer sipping, especially with a slight chill.
Light gold in color, this youthful, floral white still dances in its oak and concentration, showing high-toned acidity and exotic quince flavors as it opens.
Fresh-pressed boysenberry scents meet lava rock and slate minerality on the nose of this appellation blend from Fred Brander. There's a flinty earthiness to the palate, with pressed plum flavors and a strong graphite streak. It's relatively light in body, making it a perfect food wine.
Juicy and brightly layered despite its ripeness and soft density, this shows rich strawberry and raspberry flavor, wrapped in leathery earth.
A blend dominated by Malbec, this wine comes from one of the estates managed by the Marmande cooperative. It has fine tannins and attractively juicy black fruits. The wine is balanced with plenty of fruity acidity. Drink from 2019.
This estate, managed for the owner by Producteurs Plaimont, surrounds a perfectly preserved medieval castle. The wine is firm with tense tannins and intense juicy acidity. It has a structured character full of blackberry fruit and with a dry core. It hints at being mature already although it will be much better to drink from 2018.
This is a small production wine blended by French sommeliers. The result is a soft, rich wine, deliciously ripe and perfumed. There are touches of honey as well as yellow fruits and mango juice. The acidity gives the wine a lift and makes a contrast to the richness of the wine. Drink now.
Father-and-son vintners Joe and Sam Miller consistently deliver solid wines, including this twist-top Merlot that's aged in 50% new French oak. Its boysenberry fruit is awash in the green peppercorn, herb and crushed graphite character associated with the mountainous region. That pyrazine touch hits the palate, along with black pepper and dark chocolate spice, accenting the tangy red fruit.
Cloudy in the glass, this appellation blend shows watermelon, juniper and graphite on the nose, accenting its forward primary fruit aromas. There's an energetic tang to the sip, with a full-bodied mouthfeel and cranberry and anise flavors.
A mellow hint of green apple plays on the nose before all the customary Riesling citrus flavors kick in on the palate: ripe lemon zest and zippy, pink grapefruit. This has lightness, ease and a wonderfully slender, dry, refreshing body.
Done in a ripe fruity style, this offers fresh Meyer lemon and grapefruit flavors. Both flesh and rind come into play, with a nice balance as it moves into the finish. It concludes with a touch of phenolic bitterness.
There's a distinct herbal hint to the green pear notes on the nose of this wine. The light palate leads with white pepper, pear and lemon flavors, and the finish is clean and dry.
Zesty, fresh tangerine and grapefruit notes show on the nose of this textbook dry Riesling. The palate brings those fresh, aromatic citrus elements into full force. Though slender and streamlined in body, it's full of life, vibrant juiciness and verve.
Although the nose is rather shy and closed, the palate expands with supple red fruit and spicy tartness. This is a mellow, light-bodied Pinot Noir that's elegant and full of freshness, with a heart of plump, red fruit ready for drinking now.
The aromas are near completely closed up on first pour, with whiffs of marionberry, herb and barrel spice. The palate brings dense tightly wound fruit flavors. It needs some time to stretch its legs but there are plenty of good things going on once they come to the surface.
Wonderfully ripe and pure red and green apple notes rise from the glass. The palate shines with the same full-flavored fruit, edged by freshness and a slight spritz. The finish is generously zesty and dry but fruity.
Scents of wet stone, paraffin and citrus ease into flavors of lemon, melon and tea on the palate. This is light in body and silky in feel, with a long, harmonious finish. Drink it now or age it up to 10 years, maybe even longer.
Mossy earthy black-fruit aromas open this powerful laser-focused Mencía. Eschewing the ligh floral style that's common in Ribeira Sacra, this is ripped and intense. Toasty spicy blackberry and plum flavors show a note of lemony oak. The finish is like a spice cabinet of clove, mint, pepper, etc. Drink through 2025.
Pronounced mature plum, black-skinned berry, vanilla, dark spice and French oak aromas lift out of the glass. The firm palate delivers dried wild cherry, roasted coffee, licorice and cocoa notes, while compact tannins provide support. Drink 2020–2028.
From a vineyard owned by Talley but shared in equal parts with two other wineries, this bottling is snappy on the nose with black raspberry, graphite, sweet juniper and rose hip aromas. On the palate, it's light in body and lively with acidic energy, offering raspberry, tart plum skin and sour cherry, inflected with anise spice. There is significant length to the mouthwatering finish.
Here's another exceptional Oregon Riesling to add to the growing ranks of top producers. Lemon-drop fruit meets peaches and cream in the mouth, as this off-dry (20g/L) wine displays a spot-on balance between acid, sugar, fruit and honey. This is delicious already, and built to age nicely over a decade or longer.
Harvested late but not sweet, this decadently rich and fruity wine pairs well with cheese or an equally opulent dish such as osso bucco or red wine risotto. It has grapey, jammy aromas and late-picked flavors like fig, plum and black raisin that glide along the palate. The alcohol is high, tempered by a velvety texture and moderate tannins.
The fruit for this 100% varietal wine is sourced from Calistoga and Rutherford—a blend that yields a densely tannic, meaty palate that combines soy, cedar and pepper notes. Having already matured in bottle for some time, it's still slowly unfurling, offering jammy blackberry and licorice flavors that add spice to the finish.
Pressed and fermented in stainless steel vats and partially aged in neutral oak, this wine rewards in a vibrancy of grapefruit, tangerine and peach flavors, allowing space for a plush texture through the long-lasting brightness of the fruit.
This wine from the personal vineyard of the winery's co-founder has assertive woodsmoke, toasted oak and forest aromas, its bright black cherry and pomegranate flavors accented by tamarind and black pepper. While strongly oaky and firmly tannic in texture, it has a sleek and nervy aspect that's very appealing.
This is one of the producer's more full-bodied wines, a blend from several sites along Eastside Road, including Calegari, Foss and a new source—Lewis MacGregor Estate. Rich, round and plush, it's as strong as black coffee in its marriage of earthy allspice, baked cherry, blueberry and smoke. Moderate acidity allows for an underlying minerality.
All Pommard clone, this is loaded with juicy mixed fruits, principally plum, cherry and raspberry. It fills the palate, with lemony acids underpinning, and does a smooth fade-out with a touch of gun metal.
Earthy plum and leather aromas fold in notes of prune, rubber and oak. This shows a firm grip, tomato-like acidity and a layer or two of complexity. Peppery, toasty plum, oak and spice flavors are integrated into a quality whole, while this Carignan-Garnacha blend finishes long, dry, peppery and elegant. Drink through 2020.
After spending 18 months in oak, this wine has emerged toasty and vanilla-laden. That said, there's some impressive fruit underneath, medium-bodied and crisp, with undertones of raspberries and red currants that linger on the concentrated finish. Drink 2020–2030.
This is a 100% varietal, vineyard-designated wine, impressive in its ability to provide lush richness within a balanced context. Dark and thick, it opens with blackberry, mocha and spicy clove flavors. Although syrupy, it maintains freshness on the palate.
Lush ripe aromas of earthy black fruits and graphite open this varietal Graciano from a warm vintage. Hefty and chewy in feel, this tastes of fudge cake, blackberry and cassis. A lasting stout finish offers tobacco and prune flavors. Yes, this is huge. But there are very few Gracianos that offer this kind of power, flavor and intensity. Drink through 2023.
At a fraction of the cost of the Velvet Glove, readers can try this wine with similar results. It's full, rich and expansive on the palate. Warm waves of ripe berries suffuse the palate, tinged with Mexican chocolate, vanilla and mocha. Drink now–2025.
This big, bold blend of 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, 40% Petit Verdot and smaller amounts of Malbec and Merlot is powerfully built, with firm, integrated tannins that feel chalky and dusty. Black currant and cherry flavors dominate, with waves of tobacco and dark chocolate leading to a soft, lingering finish. This will cellar well, to be enjoyed 2023–2028.
French oak, coconut, cassis, menthol and coffee aromas lead the nose of this structured red. Made entirely from Merlot, it's densely concentrated, offering mature plum, black currant, dried sage, anise and espresso flavors. Firm, close-grained tannins give the finish grip. Drink 2018–2025.
The small 11-acre estate is situated at the northern end of the Margaux appellation. This wine, with its high percentage (70%) of Merlot is richly fruity with generous tannins and brilliant, ripe blackberry flavors. It has just the right amount of structure to allow it to age. Drink from 2021.
This is all citrus and herbal flavors from an estate noted for its pure white wines. It makes for a tight zesty wine with a chalky mineral texture. The fruits are developing to give a crisp wine that's full of fruit along with intense acidity. Drink from 2022.
A small part of Château Peyrabon (Haut-Médoc) is in the Pauillac appellation and is vinified and bottled separately. The wine delivers great fruit and equal richness. It is spice, packed with black plum and berry flavors. It is a powerful dense wine to age for several years. Drink from 2023.
The wine is dense with great fruit and accompanying structure. With its dark ripe berry fruits and full tannins, the wine is powerful although with great elegance. It is stylish, full of complexity ready to age well. Drink from 2024.
This estate is under the same management as the neighboring large vineyard of Larose Trintaudon. The wine is stylish with ripe fruit that is balanced with fine acidity. It has structure from a core of tannins that are just beginning to soften. The wine will be ready to drink from 2020.
Just a hint of pear peel rises from the nose. The palate is rich with glowing pear fruit, even a little warm, but utterly precise. All this is met with a vein of lemon freshness that brightens all the apples and pears. There is concentration and juiciness, concentration and purity. There is something very fluid and utterly moreish about this.
A gentle lift of crushed black cherry rises from the glass. There also is an edge of medicinal herb. The body is light and juicy, fresh and highly aromatic. There is concentration without weight, luxuriant fruit without plumpness. This is fresh and pure, lifted and profound. An utterly honest and uplifting rendition of Pinot Noir.
Brilliant, crystalline freshness tinged with chervil and lemon is the impression on the nose. The palate is rounder than the nose suggests but has the same brilliance and lightness of flavor. Sylvaner is an underrrated grape that is all about subtlety and herbal nuance. This lovely, expressive but light-bodied example has it in spades. Lemony freshness resonates long.
With vines in the village of Lamarque close to the Gironde estuary, this estate is well placed to benefit from the warmth of the water. The wine, a blend of 55% Cabernet Sauvignon and 40% Merlot (with the remainder Petit Verdot) is richly structured and dense. It has firm tannins as well as perfumed black-currant fruit. The wine will be ready to drink from 2021.
Named after the Pontac family which in the 18th century owned large swathes of Bordeaux and its vineyards, this estate is based around a former hunting lodge. The wine is ripe and full, finely structured and with tight still-young acidity. Drink from 2022.
Peach and rose-focused potpourri scent the nose. The palate has great direction and freshness and a rich textured core that almost comes across as oily. The result is a perfect contrast between tangy freshness and rich fruit. Bursting fruit and perfume are countered by zesty citrus. The flavors last and last and the finish is dry.
Generous and fruity in flavor and rich in texture, this is a wonderfully warm wine that's comforting to sip. It has mild tannins, a texture that seems to melt on the palate, and easy-drinking appeal.
This wine doesn't pull itself together very well, perhaps as a result of oak treatments that need additional time to resolve themselves. In any event the flavors are woody, oily and disjointed.
Rose petal and candied lemon scents lead to the medium-bodied palate, which loses a touch of concentration midway.
Toasted oak scents of espresso and char coat the underlying blackberry note. Although the palate is lax, the acidity becomes heightened as the wine unfurls across the palate. A pleasant note of raspberry coulis marks finish. A blend of Cabernet Franc, Merlot, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Sauvignon.
With a metallic aroma that follows through to the palate, this tight wine is all about texture and not much about fruit. Mineral and concentrated, it might round out, but is always likely to be firm in character.
Off-dry, it's simple and clean, with not much flavor beyond basic light melon. It can best serve as a mixer for cocktails or punch.
The wine does have fruit, but it is masked by strong burnt tannins from the wood aging. The acidity shows the possibility of red berry fruits appearing later.
Tropical fruit and melon aromas are basic but friendly. This has a punch-like mouthfeel as well as open-knit flavors of orange, nectarine, white grapefruit and apple. What it lacks in finesse is made up for in fruit.
This medium-bodied red wine doesn't quite track the classic Pinot Noir profile, but will make an appetizing refreshment for lunch or dinner. The aromas and flavors suggest prune and berries, while the texture is lean but palate-cleansing.
This is a fruity style of Vinho Verde that also brings out the crispest citrus and pink grapefruit flavors. The wine, with its light spritz, is fresh, full of acidity and just off dry. Drink now.
High-toned lemon and toasted nut notes mark the nose. Medium in body, this has cutting acids, which kick the salivary glands into overdrive.
Subtle on the nose, it has a dusty strawberry-jam aroma. Understated tannins, succulent acids and a somewhat clipped finish define the palate.
Honeyed white-currant and toast aromas lead to a middleweight palate that sports slack acids. Two bottles tasted, this note reflects the better result.
There's matchstick to the nose along with aromas of lychee and tropical fruits. This is a bit heavy and creamy on the tongue, with sweet, lightly grassy flavors of melon and citrus.
Toasty, pomaceous scents lead onto the lithe, medium-bodied palate. The acidity gains steam on the finish, making the wine feel zesty and tense.
The nose on this slightly cloudy wine is ruled by lemon-lime soda and chalky candy, which is interesting but one-dimensional. It's easy to drink and smooth enough, with a slight green apple skin tartness, but somewhat flat on the palate.
Fresh and lightly fruity, this is a crisp and fragrant wine. With great acidity and a touch of herbaceousness, it's ready to drink.
Herbal, stalky aromas surround scents of asphalt and animal hide as well as generic berry notes. A lively palate holds flavors of herbal, leafy plum, raw wood and funk, while the finish is tangy in feel, with flavors of dry oak and hints of green.
This offers black currant flavors and firm, stalky tannins. It has acidity, a good juicy character and a dry aftertaste. Drink from 2015.
This is a wine that's on the lean side. That gives it structure without enough fruit to balance. It is dry, tight and shows black currant acidity at the end.
Fruity and fresh, it's full of grapefruit, lime and green apple flavors. It is crisp and ready to drink.
A wine that is bright, fruity and light in character. The crisp apples and juicy lemon flavors are brightly lit by acidity and a hint of a more steely texture. Drink now.
This dry wine is strongly dominated by tannins. It is structured, firm and hard-edged. Without the fresh acidity at the end, it would be a tough proposition.
A note of strawberry shortcake hits the nose first, shadowed by a touch of ripe red plum. This is a succulent wine, with mild flavors and wispy, chalky tannins.
The wine is fruity, crisp and herbaceous. Everything is in place for an attractive, ready-to-drink wine, all fruit and with only a light texture.
Rustic, hearty aromas of tar, cola, herbs and burnt rhubarb make for an intriguing nose on this entry-level bottling from Testarossa. The sips feature cola and cherry flavors, with a very quick finish.
The nose on this Navarran rosado is briny and strained. The palate is on the heavy side, while flavors of peach pit and citrus peel finish pithy and mildly bitter. This will not age well.
This funky rosé is made from Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah, and there's color, spice aromas and weight dictated by that grape mix. Heavy plum and cherry flavors are fruity but flat in feel, with no cut to the finish. This is interesting but not refreshing.
Lychee and tropical fruit aromas are heavy and rubbery. Ditto the palate, which weighs in soft. Generic tropical flavors of lychee and papaya are mellow at best and finish with bitterness.
Jammy aromas of raisin and cassis include a green whiff and volatility. Flavors of plum and berry are herbal, then overripeness comes back into play. Given the region's high standards, this is just o.k.
Gritty, earthy aromas suggest compost and underripeness. This is grabby and rough on the palate, with muddled, leafy flavors of herbal plum and raspberry. A grating, peppery finish is low on fruit and hard in feel.
Reserved in aromas at first, this shows charred wood, red cherries, pomegranate and graphite on the nose. Quite intriguing texturally, the palate is sticky with tannins but light in body, offering flavors of cola and tart cranberry.
Aromas of bright pink roses and soft cherry fruit are a bit shy on the nose but pretty when they do arise. The palate of this 85% Syrah and 15% Viognier blend shows raspberry fruit and lime-rind tartness.
Orange peel, dill, herb and red-fruit aromas lead to elegant, soft, sultry feeling fruit and barrel flavors with a smoky finish. The oak gets a bit in front of the fruit but it still brings plenty of interest.
Leafy underbrush, espresso, baked plum, menthol and toast aromas slowly emerge. The straightforward palate offers ripe Morello cherry, star anise and chopped herb while assertive tannins clench the abrupt finish. Give the tannins some time to unfurl then drink up.
Coming in a bottle adorned with an informational treasure map of the region, this wine conveys bubble gum, honeysuckle and Pink Lady apples on the nose. A similar apple character shows on the palate, along with riper grapefruit notes, Anjou pear slices and graphite. The apples get more sour as the sip lingers.
From Pinot Noir grown on clay and limestone soils, this aromatic, fresh wine offers a delicious balance between the red fruits and acidity. A ripe wine, it shows a distinctly fruity character, and is ready to drink now.
Honeyed layers of yellow peach and tangerine seem to be dusted by bramble and mineral tones in this semisweet Riesling. It's a spry, zesty wine with a lip-smacking, juicy finish. Drink now through 2019.
Attractive and fruity, this warm wine is crisp and fresh at the same time. Yellow fruits and tangy orange zest are complemented by minerality and a refreshing aftertaste. It is ready to drink.
Roasted coffee bean, baked plum, charred earth, toast, vanilla and menthol aromas come together on this. The palate is firm but rather evolved, offering dried, dark-skinned berry, mocha, anise and a confectionary note wrapped in assertive close-grained tannins that dry out the finish.
This wine is all fruit, with bright acidity and refreshing apple and Rocha pear flavors. It is juicy, light and crisp, a fine apéritif style with its perfumed final acidity. Drink now.
Carignane and Petite Sirah join the party in this stewy, big and juicy wine, from head-trained vines averaging 45 years old. Briary blackberry mixes leather and fig compote with a strong seasoning of black pepper. There's no shortage of heat on the finish.
Made with 85% Cabernet Sauvignon and 15% Petit Verdot, this shows subtle aromas of blackcurrant, bell pepper and a whiff of black olive. The round, straightforward palate shows black cherry, toast and a hint of vanilla. Drink through 2018.
A tangy, zesty wine with a strongly mineral texture, this is fruity and fresh. It's full of green plum, herbal and gooseberry flavors. With its texture and structure, it needs to age, so drink from 2017.
In this wine, herbal, green flavors bring out a bright, fruity character. It's fresh and crisp, while also having ripe green fruits and a light touch of spice. Drink now.
Toast, oak, roasted coffee bean, mature plum and underbrush aromas lift out of the glass. The taut palate is loaded with oak-driven spice, espresso, a green note of bitter sage and dried berry but it lacks fruit richness. Astringent tannins clench the finish.
Young and sharp-toned, this shows a strong streak of oak with a bitter edge to it. More bottle age may help to soften it up a bit, but for now it's all about oak and apple without much else. Cellar it awhile or give it extra aeration.
Aromas of pine forest, wild berry, chopped herb, brown spice and a toasted note lead the nose. The ripe palate shows dried cherry, sage, anise and coffee bean alongside a backbone of assertive tannins that grip the somewhat abrupt finish.
A bouquet of peach, melon and freesia sets the scene for flavors of white peach, apricot, watermelon and rose petal with a touch of spearmint. It is bright on entry and soft in the mouth, and the spearmint note holds strong into the bright finish.
Light mineral and lemon-rind aromas are followed by dry, tart flavors. It should shine on the dinner table.
Friendly and flavorful, this offers bright butter and fruit aromas, opulent pear and baking spice flavors and a lingering, vanilla-like finish. The texture is plush and the balance leans toward ripe and rich.
Fresh apple, pear and tangerine flavors revitalize the palate in this crisp, approachable Sauvignon Blanc. It's uncomplicated yet elegant, finishing on a penetrating streak of lemon-lime acidity.
A blend of fruit from Williamson, Bitner and Hells Canyon vineyards, this wine offers aromas of woodspice, mulberry, vanilla and mesquite. There's texture to the flavors along with some astringency to the tannins.
Plum and currant aromas are gaseous at first, then minerally. This is tight, high in acidity and tannic. Rubbery, lightly briny cherry and plum flavors are held together by firm acidity, while this feels tight and wiry late, with herbal notes and tannic grab.
Aromas of toast, cedar and black currant jam lead the nose. The rather lean palate offers tart red currant, ground pepper and oak-driven spice but not a lot of fruit richness. Assertive, astringent tannins leave a mouth-puckering finish.
An extremely pungent florality hits the nose on this sweeter bottling, with orange blossoms, strong white flowers and a quinine character. The palate is brightly sweet but far from overly done, with perfumed night jasmine mixing into more orange-blossom elements. Perhaps this wine is an acquired taste, but it's clean and crisp.
Blue-flower and red-berry aromas lead the way along with a whiff of eucalyptus. The firm palate offers hints of star anise, espresso and a green note of powdered sage that back up unripe red cherry. It closes on a coffee note.
There's a high-tone brightness of cassis and plum in this juicy, estate wine. A fruity character balances well against savory leather and black pepper that ride a thick wave of tannin.
Light cherry red to the eye, this wine made of 100% Karalahna yields little on the nose, offering a soft aroma of cranberry. Flavors of cherry confiture, black currant, cranberry, spearmint and black pepper are set amidst ever-present tannins that linger on the front of the tongue.
Scorched soil, black-skinned berry, worn leather and dried herb aromas come together here. The jammy palate is already rather evolved, offering dried black cherry, clove and star anise alongside bracing tannins. Give the tannins a few more years to unclench then drink up to catch the remaining fruit.
Very deep color, potent aromas and a dense, but velvety texture paint a bold picture for this full-bodied wine. It has the drama and flavor recalling an expensive red, without overpowering tannins or a high price.
This Pinot does not shy away from some sharp, slightly bitter herbal flavors, but keeps them in balance against a core of tart cranberry fruit. It's well made and solid, with medium-long persistence.
Straightforward and savory, this easygoing red offers aromas of wild berry, violet and a whiff of dark kitchen spice. The vibrant palate offers juicy black cherry, licorice and ground pepper set in a frame of racy acidity.
Well integrated in terms of barrel use (listed as 60% used French oak and 40% new), this features a robust exuberance of fruit, from Asian pear to Meyer lemon. Spicy with a touch of nutmeg and ginger, it hones a fine line of minerality throughout.
This honeyed spicy Spätlese seems straightforward in fruit, but its racy, nerve-tingling energy is electrifying. Fresh apple and pears are revitalized by streaks of lemon, lime and grapefruit that linger through a moderately long finish.
Sourced from old-vine Wädenswil clones, this effort carries the new Elkton AVA designation. Pretty raspberry and strawberry fruit is set in lightly toasty tannins. This is a lovely everyday Pinot Noir with some density.
Cherry-vanilla surrounds a flank of big oak, while classic notes of baked strawberry also come into play. A brawny, full-bodied expression of the variety, given 6% Mourvèdre and 6% Syrah, it has good bones and acidity lurking beneath the power.
Lush aromas of black cherry, vanilla, kola nut and blackberry fudge pack lots of action into this bottling. The palate confirms the complexity, with blueberry and black cherry backed by pipe tobacco, dried marjoram and a pencil lead-driven structure.
This wine is a blend of De Ponte, Schindler and Kalita fruit, smooth and supple, though falling a bit flat in terms of mouthfeel. Leafy herbal components come up soonest, followed with sweet barrel notes, from 15 months in half new French oak.
A dusty, cigar-smoke character on the nose of this blend of 52% Syrah and 48% Cabernet Sauvignon spices up aromas of strawberry fruit and rotting roses. The palate combines complex cranberry fruits with Kalamata olive, thyme and pencil lead.
This is a delicious refreshing wine with great acidity coupled with ripe white and yellow fruits. The richness is cut by minerality, fragrant acidity and lemon curd. It is still young and will be better from 2016.
This is a rich, very rich wine that is packed with tropical fruits, generous apricot and peach flavors and spice. It is full in the mouth, showing some pepper from the alcohol that spoils the otherwise fruity character. The aftertaste does introduce some freshness.
Tight and tart, this entry-level bottling marries sharp fruit flavors of raspberry and cherry to a high-acid foundation. It's fruit-forward, perfect to gulp down with a favorite sandwich or football food.
Pretty in pink and orange hues, this stainless-steel-fermented charmer has a candied orange flavor that's delicious, followed by fresh, crisp strawberry and tangerine-laced acidity. Medium bodied, it ends with a burst of peach.
About 30% was aged in new French oak, the rest in neutral wood. A bit closed, it offers tight, tart rhubarb and cherry fruit, with a fading wash of milk chocolate. It's a lighter style in a lighter vintage, but nicely balanced and drinking well.
Aromas of plum, pressed violet, toasted oak and a whiff of exotic spice lead the nose. The palate offers dried black cherry, raisin, licorice, espresso and black pepper alongside fine-grained tannins.
This opens with earthy aromas of scorched earth, overripe plum and a whiff of game. The straightforward palate offers juicy wild cherry, raspberry jam, coffee and vanilla alongside zesty acidity and fine-grained tannins. Drink through 2017.
Aromas of sawdust, stewed plum and chocolate unfold in the glass. The forward palate doles out blackberry extract, fleshy cherry, toast, anise and espresso alongside velvety tannins. Drink through 2021.
Piercing choppy aromas of balsamic plum, tobacco and cherry lead to a tannic, scratchy palate with saucy, oaky berry flavors that come with a baked overtone. This Rioja from a poor vintage runs long on the finish, with an oak-based vanilla flavor and residual balsamic notes.
French oak, vanilla, coconut, menthol and berry aromas lead the nose and carry over to the bracing palate along with close-grained tannins that leave a rather astringent finish.
Aromas of Middle Eastern spices, pencil eraser, oak grain, red plum and cherry make for a complete nose. This Tempranillo offers good body and a fair amount of oak on the palate along with spicy plum fruit that tastes more oaky and lactic on the finish.
Rubbery slightly grassy berry and plum aromas give way to a fresh and fair palate that works. Oaky cherry and berry flavors are standard but well presented, while the finish is mild, with leftover plum and berry notes.
Showing earthy aromas, very full body and impressive tannins, this wine has flavors full of smoke, black pepper and blackberry. The thick, dry texture coats the mouth with tannin and dark color. It's a big wine, and should taste great with dishes like slow-cooked ribs.
Big, blocky black-fruit aromas are reduced and potent. This is quite chunky and extracted in feel, with jammy gritty blackberry and plum flavors that are mildly herbal and simmer with heat and heft on the finish.
This is a soft, open wine, lightly flavored with red fruits and with attractive acidity. A bright, lively mousse gives a lift to the palate, finishing with an orange-zest tang.
This big, firm wine offers serious tannins as well as rich blackberry fruits. It's a structured, dark wine, spicy from wood aging and ripely concentrated. Drink from 2017.
Scents softly suggest rose petals and milk chocolate, leading into a wine that seems to hit a hard stop midpalate. A clear flavor of cold steel resonates against a counterpoint of tart berry fruit.
Why, at the northern limits of Burgundy, there should be a small village producing Sauvignon Blanc is a curiosity, as the name of the wine suggests. This ripe, tropical fruit and crisp green plum-flavored wine is tightly textured and ready to drink.
This is a soft, rounded wine full of yellow fruits, pears and red apples. It is textured with minerality and tangy lemon zest. The acidity at the end is still fresh and the wine could do with some more time before drinking. Wait until late 2016.
Pressed apple and pears are dusted in pollen and saffron in this earth-toned Spätlese. Delicately sweet honey tones brighten the midpalate, accompanied by bracing lemonade acidity. The finish is moderately long, marked by a lingering touch of dried herbs.
Aromas of lemon, green apple and wet stone make up the nose on this quaffable Godello that's solid on the palate, with some pithiness. Flavors of melon, apple and green banana finish with notes of lees, citrus pith and bitterness.
Aromas recall toasted bread crumbs, golden apples and a hint of vanilla. The palate offers Bartlett pear, yellow peach, lemon zest, roasted almond and mineral, but it closes on an unusual medicinal note.
This is rich and full of superripe fruit that gives the otherwise structured wine a jammy feel. It has a solid, dense texture that brings out blackberry jelly flavors as well as a more tannic core. It's not a wine for long-term aging, so drink from 2015.
A delicious apple flavored wine, fruity-crisp and packed with lively acidity. It has a fine, light mousse, smoothly textured and with lively, perfumed final acidity. Drink now.
Very fresh, this is also a ripe, smooth-textured wine. Lemon flavors go with melon, pear and a touch of apricot. The wine has some weight, stylish and rounded. It should age another few months.
Dry and tannic, this 100% Cab has flavors of herbs, blackberries and tea. It's a tough wine not showing generosity now. You can age for a couple years, but the tannins will outlast the fruit.
Made in a soft, fruity style, this darkly colored wine brims with complex flavors of blackberries, red licorice, grilled prosciutto, coffee, black pepper and sandalwood. Drink with steaks, chops and stews.
Aromas include white flowers, stone fruit and cantaloupe. The easy-drinking, lively palate offers green apple, pear and almond alongside crisp acidity that leaves a clean, fresh finish.
This is a dark and dense wine that has solid perfumed fruits. The tannins, still dry, are partnered with blackberry fruits, spice and just a touch of wood. The wine needs to age, so wait until 2016.
A smooth and rich wine that is already delicious. It has ripe berry fruits, soft tannins and a full, juicy feel. A streak of acidity cuts through this generous wine. Drink now.
Made by adding brandy to wine must, this is a sweet, liquorous wine. It has bitter orange and honey flavors that are given weight and richness by spirit and wood. It is best as an apéritif wine, chilled.
This juicy, fruity wine comes from an estate once owned by the Knights Templar. Full of red berry flavors and acidity, it has a light touch along with a layer of tannins and signs of wood aging. It's likely to age quickly. Drink now.
Oak spice, mint, cocoa powder and berry aromas set up a medium-bodied palate with pinching tannins and depth. Spicy plum and berry flavors are toasty and finish with dark aftershocks of bitter coffee, black pepper and tobacco.
Spicy and savory, it offers aromas of white and black pepper along with raspberry, dark cherry and hints of bell pepper that carry over to the palate along with aggressive tannins. Drink 2015–2021.
This light but balanced wine offers tart flavors of cranberry and rhubarb, plenty of acidity, and moderate concentration. One quarter spent time in new French oak.
A 60-some-year-old vineyard, untrellised and low yielding, Esola is a longtime source of this 100% Zinfandel made by Amador Foothill for some time. Still young, it offers a taste of raspberry cordial amid smooth, ripe tannins and cinnamon spice. Lay it down until 2017–2019 and it'll soften some more.
A familiar Chilean mix of berry, plum, spice and herbal aromas feed into a lifted but prickly palate that supports roasted, earthy flavors of berry, cassis and olive. A racy, slightly rough finish is home to spicy, chocolaty flavors on top of residual herbal berry.
Intensely aromatic, with notes of blackberries, bramble and granite, this is a rich, lavishly oaked Pinot Noir with heft and power. It's a bit woody now, but 3–5 years in the cellar should bring out its floral, mineral qualities.
Waxy honeycomb and pressed apple notes lend a savory feel to this brisk, off-dry Riesling. The palate is marked by a refreshing bite of tart apple skins and lean, lemony acidity. The finish is moderately long.
Aromas of spring wild flowers come together with a subtle hint of peach. The savory palate delivers citrus, grapefruit and a crisp pear along with a note of white almond.
This is a light and fruity wine. It is clean, fragrant and fresh, with citrus laced with apple and peaches. Lively and touched by wood, it is ready to drink, although it will be better in 2015.
This wine shows some polish and complexity, although it's not ageable. Dry and slightly oaky, it has rich flavors of raspberry jam and brown sugar, with crisp, mouthwatering acidity.
The exceptionally low alcohol translates into a charming wine that shows pale but balanced flavors, similar to a village cru in France's Burgundy region. The tart cranberry fruit, lightly spiced, should match nicely to lighter summer fare.
Distantly related to Malbec, Pied de Perdrix is found occasionally in the southwest French vineyards. It produces a light and fruity wine with simple tannins and juicy acidity. An attractive wine, it is fresh with red berry flavors and a bright aftertaste. Drink now.
RIch in baked bread aromas and dark, black licorice color and flavor, this robust Zin from the famed Mohr-Fry Vineyard exudes crushed blackberries and is soft and round, overtaken only slightly by its generous alcohol. Its structure may allow it to enjoy a mellowness after aging until 2017–2019.
It opens with subtle aromas of white spring flowers, light spice and yellow apple. The juicy palate offers tropical fruit, pear and bitter almond notes alongside fresh acidity.
Charred and heavily oaked from the opening gun to the closing tape. Amid all the barrel influence and toast, you'll find black plum and wild berry aromas and flavors. On the finish, oak reasserts its control over this wine.
It shows the variety's lusty red stone fruits and berries, with hints of milk chocolate and baking spices. A bit of new oak brings a wood-spice sweetness. You can drink this dry Zin now or stash it away for a couple years.
You'll find strong, bitter tannins, despite the fact that it's more than four years of age. It's absolutely dry, and the flavors are rich and concentrated, suggesting summer-ripe blackberries, mashed and sprinkled with cocoa, dark chocolate, espresso, cassis liqueur and black pepper. Decant it and drink through 2016.
This opens with aromas of oak, mint, saw dust and lemon zest. The palate offers toasted oak, spice and a hint of dried apricot and citrus. Although it still has vibrant acidity, the fruit is for the most part dried up, giving this a lean but linear character.
Floral aromas of white spring flowers partner hints of pear and stone fruit. The juicy palate offers white peach, apple and green melon alongside a mineral note and fresh acidity.
Ripe and earthy aromas of black cherry and blackberry are lush and dense on the nose. The palate follows suit with a full mouthfeel, but retains adequate acidity for balance. Flavors of gravel-tinged black fruit, baking spice and carob finish ripe and easy. Drink now.
Cigar box and very ripe strawberry dominate the aromatic profile, though a bit of bell pepper lingers in the background. It's light and racy on the palate, with cherry cola, cedar and mellow tannins, making for a very fresh and fun wine, best served after mild chilling.
The granite soil of the Lindenberg vineyard produces a wine that is steely, tight, packed with as much acidity and mineral texture as fruit. It has layers of acidity and fruit over this firm, young structure. This complex wine needs to age, so drink from 2017.
A savory, mineral aspect makes this dry wine especially interesting. It has slightly herbal aromas, white peach flavors, rather full body that adds lushness, and a lingering finish.
Dark garnet in color, this wine has aromas of black cherry and lingonberry. Flavors of blackberry, cherry and green pepper are mildly outweighed by strong tannins, with just the tiniest splash of brightness on the finish.
Sun-kissed pineapple and tart mango entice on the nose of this unusually refined off-dry Vignoles. It's lusciously ripe on the palate, bursting with yellow cherry and tangerine flavors, but streaked by racy lemon acidity. The finish is elegantly lingers on a dried sage note.
All estate grown, this blend is roughly half and half Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with a splash of Sangiovese. Dark and fruity, it opens generously with flavors of black cherry, cassis and a hint of cola, finishing with lick of dark chocolate. A mix of French, Hungarian and American oak—24% new—was used.
This straightforward Barbaresco opens with a pretty nose of wild rose, crushed red berry and balsamic notes. The palate delivers ripe black cherry, licorice and cinnamon alongside chewy tannins.
A blend of 57% Merlot, 37% Cabernet Sauvignon and 6% Syrah, this opens with a sweetly spiced bouquet of red and purple fruits. The medium weight midpalate brings tart plum and cherry flavors, plentiful acidity and moderate, balanced tannins. Drink now through 2020.
Blended with 8% Petite Sirah and then aged almost a year in American oak, 30% of it new, this is fruity and smoky in equal measure. Its tones of blackberry, leather and black pepper are harmonious. Round and soft, it's easy to drink and will be approachable to a variety of palates.
This is relatively light for Red Mountain Syrah—silky and tart with accents of orange peel and lemony acidity. The tight, tangy berry fruit shows a streak of chocolate, from time in 30% new French oak, and despite the cool vintage it finishes with some heat.
Leesy, toasty opening aromas accent melon, flower blossom and stone fruit scents. This is woody but healthy in feel, with acidic lift. Flavors of resiny, briny melon and peach finish with a wave of barrel-driven vanilla, but overall this shows coastal freshness and proper balance.
A hint of brioche lends autolytic character to fresh spring blossom and lemon notes on this elegant, bristling traditional-method sparkling. It's delicately effervescent and startlingly brisk, finishing on a soft, rolling foam that deliciously lingers.
Barrel-fermented , this nonetheless offers clean, crisp flavors of pear and pineapple on the palate. The fruit lingers through a medium-sized body that picks up steam on the finish, delving into richer notes of fig and lemon curd. The fruit is 100% estate.
This spent 18 months in 100% new oak, though it does not over-ride the pretty, cherry-candy fruit flavors. There's a suggestion of spun sugar as the wine trails off into a lightly chocolatey finish.
This is an aromatically appealing wine with notes of cocoa, coffee, cherry and woodspice. It's full bodied with a lot of richness to the tart cherry flavors that need some time to settle in.
Dense and delicious, this deeply colored wine opens with aromas of blue flower, plum, raspberry and graphite. The lively, savory palate delivers concentrated black cherry, cassis, white pepper and mineral before reaching a dry finish. Thanks to broad but fine tannins, it has a surprisingly solid structure for such an easy-drinking, enjoyable wine.
This 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is distinct in herb and peppercorn, the red fruit warm and juicy. Layered and soft, it's approachable and ready to enjoy now.
Wood aging gives this Reserva in the Periquita range an elegant and smooth texture. It's rich on the palate, while allowing plenty of room for spice and blackberry fruit over a layer of firm tannins. This is a finely structured wine that can age for another year.
The wine is dry, although its soft and creamy texture it brings out a gently sweeter side. Acidity, apples, freshly squeezed lemon and a green herbal touch give complexity and a ripe aftertaste.
Josmeyer's organic wines give a very pure line in fruitiness. This Pinot Blanc has texture, crisp and clean lemon and apple flavors and a light, bright touch. The aftertaste keeps the mineral freshness and acidity.
The majority of the grapes for this wine were fermented in stainless steel, a mere 10% in neutral oak, resulting in a fruity, dry expression of fresh pineapple juice and a surprise jolt of natural sweetness, especially on the midpalate. In the end, things finish fantastically in a whirl of acidity.
Tangerine peel and citrus blossom are fragrant and fresh on this flirtatious off-dry Riesling. Straightforward and juicy in style, the palate is saturated with peach and apricot nectar. Zesty lime and touches of mineral add lift to the finish.
The aromas of moss, mineral and plum are light and elusive, providing contrast to the palate's broad, juicy, ripe fruit flavors. Perhaps additional time in the bottle will allow it to fully blossom.
A light touch of caramel sweetens the otherwise bright and crisp fruit. It has a rich character that is ripe and packed with red berry and citrus flavors. With its great fruitiness, this is an apéritif style of wine.
Aromas include menthol, eucalyptus, leather, mature berry and a whiff of cellar floor. The palate needs time to open fully but it offers dried black cherry, roasted coffee bean and espresso alongside astringent tannins.
Aromas of ripe red berry, scorched earth, leather, spice and balsamic notes lead the nose on this robust wine. The youthful palate is still closed but reveals mature black cherry, clove, black pepper and a hint of espresso alongside brooding tannins.
Totally herbaceous and crisp, this is a rich, citrus-flavored wine. Grapefruit flavors dominate with a twist of lemon on top, giving a zesty texture that shows a young wine. For it to calm down and broaden out, wait until the end of 2015.
This dark wine shows the beneficial effects of the fine 2010 vintage. Immense blackberry fruits balance the ripe, dry tannins and refreshing acidity. It needs time to develop further; drink from 2016.
Firm and stalky, this wine has intense black currant fruitiness. A dry tannic core is balanced by the fresh fruits and acidity. It's almost too fruity at the moment and needs to soften, so wait until 2016.
An attractively perfumed wine that adds Muscadelle to the blend. That gives a spicy, bright character as well as fragrant acidity to accompany the lime and peppered pear fruitiness. Drink now.
Rusty in color, gritty, earthy aromas of mushroom open the aromas of this solid feeling Pinot. The modest acidity makes the palate seem a bit flat, while baked—slightly burnt—flavors of peppered berry fruits finish modest and dry in feel.
Once past an element of burnt rubber that mingles with the ripe blackberry aromas, this becomes a hearty and concentrated wine yet one with very moderate alcohol. It has plenty of tannins to add texture, and enough concentration to keep the vivid berry and wood smoke flavors lingering on the finish. It's made without adding sulfites.
Dusty and mineral, yet full of crisp lemon, lime and grapefruit flavors, this off-dry wine is a refreshing example of one of the Mosel's unsung grapes, Elbling. Delicate in body, it finishes briskly on a slightly smoky, mineral tone. Drink now.
Floral and grassy aromas, followed by apple, grapefruit and white pepper flavors, create a lively and fruity profile in this medium-bodied wine. Crisp acidity cuts through the rich texture to create good balance.
This ripe, smooth and juicy wine shows plenty of Malbec tannins as well as fresh berry flavors. Still young, it has a bright character that will certainly calm down and show its more structured side. Drink from 2016.
This copper-colored sparkler opens with aromas of white flowers and bread crust. The palate offers dried cherry, bitter walnut and toast alongside brisk acidity.
This opens with aromas of wet leaves, forest floor, menthol and prune. Made from Alicante and a drop of Montepulciano, the palate delivers mocha, crushed herb, licorice and a fig note alongside evolved tannins. It's already tired, so drink soon.
This smells fresh, lean and crisp, with briny notes of lemon, cider and almond skins. A snappy palate holds apple, lime and nectarine flavors that finish with peach-pit bitterness, citrus pith and stony notes. Drink immediately.
This spicy wine with its aromatic character is fruity while also having some structure. The 90% Malbec/10% Merlot blend has a dry core, juicy red currant fruits and considerable acidity. With only a minimum of wood aging, it is ready to drink.
This deliciously crisp estate-produced wine is full of the freshest strawberry fruits. It dances with its acidity and light touch of spice. From one of the largest private vineyards in France (2,300 acres), the wine is ready to drink.
A wine that smells so fruity, and with a soft, open texture, needs to be drunk young. This wine is all red berries coupled with acidity and some smoky tannins. It's a great idea to chill it slightly.
This lively fresh wine brings out the fruitiness of the blend rather than the tannins of the Syrah and Merlot. Citrus and red berry flavors are well integrated with the crisp acidity. Drink now.
Black cherries, sagebrush, dried rose petals, black loam and a tiny bit of tar frame the nose on this blend of 43% Grenache, 27% Syrah, 25% Mourvèdre and 5% Durif (a k a Petite Sirah). The palate offers flavors of dried blueberries and Bing cherries, with a touch of asphalt and black pepper.
The nose on this wine from regional pioneer Gary Eberle is reserved at first, then releases seared lemon, tightly wound stone fruit, soft butter and caramel nibs. There is a pleasant weight on the medium-density palate, with sour-leaning flavors of Granny Smith apple peels, lime rinds and some riper honeydew melon.
Aromas of saline, citrus fruit, passion fruit and mustard are pithy and show pyrazines. Following the nose, this is citric in feel, with orange peel and grapefruit flavors. A grassy, slightly bitter finish is snappy and suggests fresh scallion.
This bold and fruity rosé carries scents and flavors of cherry candy. It's a fine bottle for chilling and sharing with summer picnic foods.
Rubbery and gaseous smelling, this Bordeaux blend also sports plum and berry scents. The palate is solid but somewhat lean, hollow and acidic. Flavors of tomato sauce, red currant and briny berry fruits finish scratchy, with high acidity.
This medium-bodied effort comes across a slightly crisp and lacking in richness, but nevertheless delivers ample raspberry and cherry fruit before ending with some slightly tough tannins. Drink now with grilled meats, or hold through 2017 and see if it mellows a bit.
Bubble gum and cotton candy aromas come across as slightly confected at the moment, but they should settle down into cherry-berry notes after 6–9 months of cellaring. Like most Tavels, this should be at its best about 18 months after the vintage.
This is a simple but appealing rosé, defined by strawberry fruit, hints of chalk dust and a mouthwatering finish.
Although this is heavily oaked, with minty, dark aromas of shoe polish, char and black licorice, it's solid and generous as a whole. Grabby and tannic in feel, but not to an extreme level, this tastes of herbs, charred oak and black fruits. A mild green note works its way onto a woody finish.
This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Sangiovese has a rather inexpressive nose that eventually reveals bell pepper, cedar and spice. The palate offers dried black cherries, oak, sawdust and oak-driven spice while astringent wood tannins give it an abrupt, drying finish. It lacks vibrancy and there's not enough fruit richness to stand up to the oak.
Stalky aromas of straw and citrus are challenging but acceptable. On the palate, this is racy and feels like nectarine juice. Leesy, stalky peach flavors finish floral and yeasty, with lasting acidity. Drink immediately.
Lemon, lime, sulfur and matchstick aromas are solid. This Viura has a standard, fresh, zesty mouthfeel and common flavors of white grapefruit and lime. A minerally, citric finish is crisp and appropriate.
Trim and tannic, this distinctive effort mixes bright black cherry and cassis fruit with peppery herbs, notably rosemary. The balance is right on track, and the wine holds together through a medium-long finish.
This wine spent time in French, American and Hungarian oak, 25% of it new. It offers a classically herbal expression of the variety, exhibiting notes of black olive and leather over fruity tones. Tight and grippy, it needs to open over time to let the aromas catch up on the palate.
Powdery, wayward aromas pick up more raciness and green character with time in the glass. A linear palate flat-lines at lime and green apple in terms of flavors, while the finish brings a slightly vegetal tone.
This is a creamy style of Alvarinho, rich with warm apricot and peach flavors. It has bright acidity to balance the fruit and offers a fresh-citrus aftertaste. The wine will be ready to drink by the end of 2015.
Fresh and floral, this informal wine delivers red berry flavors lightly accented with notes of white pepper. Zesty acidity and supple tannins make it very accessible. Pair it with your favorite pizza or pasta topped with tomato sauce.
The Eichberg vineyard, one of the driest in Alsace, is on a gentle southeast-facing slope. This Gewurztraminer shows the opulent style of wines that are typically produced. It is rich and generous, developing cinnamon and nutmeg flavors balanced by superripe tropical fruits. It still has a way to go, so drink from 2017.
Credited as the first wine made solely with noble native grape Nero d'Avola, this iconic bottling opens with aromas that recall ripe berry, lightly toasted oak, leather and cooking spice. The firm, structured palate delivers ripe blackberry, juicy wild cherry, licorice, tobacco and savory herb alongside velvety tannins. It's already tempting but will continue to develop complexity. Drink 2015–2024.
Christian Beyer is the 14th generation to run his family's estate. This wine is one of his jewels, a ripely luscious wine that's so well balanced. While honey creeps into the flavors, it's also full of fruits, with a ripe and unctuous texture. The spice gives a dry edge to the otherwise medium-sweet wine that's structured and firm at the end. Drink from 2017.
Wonderfully floral, this wine is rich while also having great fruits, a fresher edge and tannins that caress. From the Croft home vineyard, it shows fullness and structure. The aftertaste is so fruity and fragrant, it's almost drinkable now. Wait, though, until 2020.
This winery is at the extreme edge of the pick-early, low-alcohol movement, which can make the wines challenging for the usual California Pinot fan. But this Pinot begins on familar territory, with heady aromas of dried violet and scarlet rose, damp forest floor, and cinnamon-laced cranberry sauce, managing to be both brisk and funky. The flavors are light and tart, but will pick up more savory characteristics from 2018–2024.
This comes from one of Josh Jensen's vineyards that got barely a half-ton an acre this vintage. It offers aromas of sandalwood, leather, dried strawberry and sagebrush and is light and airy on the palate, with medium red fruits, roots and bark complexity on the midpalate. The wine finishes on nuances of hibiscus and black tea.
Wisps of smoke and crushed rock imbue this dry, broadly textured wine. Lemon and lime acidity strike the midpalate like a laser before melting into the mineral-rich sheen that extends the finish. It's remarkably bold for a Mosel Riesling, yet never loses it's elegant appeal.
John and Helen Falcone's annual offering of this nonvintage blend of Syrah, Petite Sirah and Cabernet Sauvignon offers aromas of smoky cedar, cherry liqueur, mint and fresh-ground coffee. It's ripe and inviting right away on the palate, with blackberry extract and black licorice flavors, which benefit from acidity and soft tannins that emerge on the midpalate.
Dark and dense, this is sourced from the winery's own Sacrashe property in the hillsides of Rutherford, as well as Bergfeld Vineyard. The wine has a concentrated and jammy quality that doesn't step over the edge. It offers anise, blackberry, black currant and dried herb around a soft, rounded mouthfeel and long finish. Enjoy 2021–2026.
There's something special about this Zin, given a handful of Petite Sirah for aromatic depth. It opens with supple, high-toned raspberry and cherry before delving into a layering of dusty, cinnamon spice. Juicy, alive and fresh, it delivers a cherry-vanilla finish.
Though already four years old, this blend of 77% Zinfandel and 23% Petite Sirah shows lots of promise for a long-lasting wine. Complicated aromas of tobacco and ripe boysenberries become sagebrush herbs on the palate, bolstered by blueberry and elderberry fruits. The tannic grip is still strong, so drink 2018–2028.
Though not officially certified biodynamic, this vineyard is farmed according to those principles. Subtle textures and threads of umami run alongside the ripe blackberry and cherry fruit. The wine gains heft and depth as it breathes, and fills in the back end with barrel accents of coffee and nutmeg. Drink now through 2025.
Made from 80-year old Nerello Mascalese vines, this powerfully structured wine features aromas of ripe berry, allspice, anise and Mediterranean herb. The concentrated, warm palate offers ripe black cherry, raspberry, licorice, mineral and white pepper alongside the warmth of alcohol and firm, velvety tannins.
Graphite, lemon peel, cedar and blackberry aromas are lusty and high in quality. A flashy, fresh, slick mouthfeel is the perfect vessel for toasty, dark blackberry, coconut, vanilla and mocha flavors. The mocha note persists on the finish, which is juicy and fresh but also thick and chewy. Drink through 2018.
Aromas of dark berry, mineral, blue flower and leather come together in the glass. The structured palate offers black cherry, coffee, oak, licorice and grilled Mediterranean herb alongside assertive tannins that need to unwind. It ends on a mineral note. Drink 2017–2025.
Toasted oak and caramel apple mark the entry of this wine, from a coveted and steady source of Carneros fruit. Lush and hedonistic in Golden Delicious apple and pear, it retains a core of minerality throughout, finishing clean and bright.
The aromatics immediately capture your attention, mixing baking spices with fennel, wet rock, and ginger cake. Compact, young, fresh fruit flavors suggest pomegranate, wild raspberry and very tart cherries. This is an acid-lover's wine, with the structure to age for decades.
Named after the lords of Hattstatt—a word that evolved to Hatschbourg—this wine comes from selected grapes. It's a medium sweet, rich wine with a smooth structure and opulent texture. Lychees and yellow fruits are cut with lime acidity to balance ripeness and freshness. It's a wine to age, drink from 2018.
This is a rich wine, labeled sweet but with a firm core of dryness that gives considerable texture. It reveals pure, ripe fruits coming from the biodynamically grown grapes, adding to a depth of flavor. It's ready for some good aging, so wait to drink until 2017.
A complete wine in every way, this limited (three barrel) reserve opens with solid bass notes of thick wood and dark fruit. That platform of black cherry and cassis is adorned with light touches of pepper, vanilla, mocha and the streak of iron that seems to characterize many McMinnville wines. Drink 2015 through 2030.
Expect exciting things from this Bordeaux-focused label by Thomas Fogarty Winery. This offers scents of blueberry, boysenberry and purple flowers such as lilac and lavender. It's dainty yet dynamic on the palate, with blue fruit and espresso, restrained and elegant throughout.
The fruit came from the Glenrose Vineyard and underwent a 30-day maceration before spending three years in puncheon. The wonderful nose shows chocolate-covered dried cherries, stewed plum, sweetened leather and an almost teriyaki umami. The palate is framed by silky, fine-grained tannins with acidity that's still fresh, along with roasted game, cooked cherry and more tanned leather flavors.
Sourced from a dry-farmed, 40-year-old vineyard, this Zin offers aromas of red brick, cherry syrup, licorice, black sage, shaved nutmeg and nose-tickling baking spices. The grippy palate is driven by sagebrush and chemise, with ample amounts of pepper and spice giving nuance to the ripe blackberry fruit.
Pfersigberg, the hill of peach trees, is an apt name for this ripe wine. Yellow and tropical fruits show strongly along with spice, bergamot and concentration from the 50-year-old vines in the wine. The chalk soil gives a touch of minerality to the aftertaste that remains rich and full-bodied in style. Drink from 2017.
This wine has both great richness and a cool, stylish side. It's structured, with a strong streak of minerality as well as as spice and pepper. It has a cool, restrained feel at the moment, waiting for the time to burst out with its complex structure. Hold at least until 2017.
While the wine is very sweet, the sweetness does not stand out as much as the intense spiciness. It's a gorgeous wine without excess, textured and with minerality. The aftertaste has a light touch of acidity. It's impressive now, although it will be better from 2018.
Planted on volcanic soil, this vineyard with its steep slopes produces impressive wines. This concentrated, deeply powerful wine is structured, powered by superripe quince and lychee fruits. Complex and still maturing, the wine needs at least until 2018.
Densely colored and nearly opaque in the glass, this offers aromas of black cherry syrup, strong black licorice and chicory, with lifting scents of chopped herbs and black pepper. It's velvety and dense on the palate, with purple and dark red fruits, black herbs and an even tannic grip.
This fragrant wine starts with aromas of rose, violet, cake spice and woodland berry. The vibrant palate doles out juicy black cherry, licorice, cinnamon, pipe tobacco and mineral. It's impeccably balanced with velvety tannins and bright acidity.
A lovely 100% Viognier fermented and aged in both stainless steel and neutral oak, this wine opens with come-hither aromas of night-blooming jasmine and white flowers, evolving in the glass into a bright, viscous expression of honey and almond. Concentrated yet lively, it's a beautiful wine.
Radiant and elegant, this offers enticing white stone fruit, Mediterranean brush and spring flower scents. The vibrant, balanced palate delivers creamy white peach, pear and tangy nectarine flavors, alongside crisp acidity. A savory mineral note gives it a mouthwatering finish.
This lightly built wine is fully expressive, with floral aromas and bright layers of black cherry, peppery clove and toasted oak. Balanced and unhindered, it will work well at the table.
This is a pristinely fruity yet vivacious sparkling rosé. It's deft in body and scintillatingly crisp, offering layers of tart red-apple and raspberry flavors. Fine delicate froth and persistent bubbles set it apart, as does its long sugar-cookie finish.
This wine hits the nose with red cherry vibrancy. That almost dramatic fruit also fills the palate with its easy juiciness. This may be simple and light, but its absolute fruitiness makes it great for summer sipping, especially with a slight chill.
Light gold in color, this youthful, floral white still dances in its oak and concentration, showing high-toned acidity and exotic quince flavors as it opens.
Fresh-pressed boysenberry scents meet lava rock and slate minerality on the nose of this appellation blend from Fred Brander. There's a flinty earthiness to the palate, with pressed plum flavors and a strong graphite streak. It's relatively light in body, making it a perfect food wine.
Juicy and brightly layered despite its ripeness and soft density, this shows rich strawberry and raspberry flavor, wrapped in leathery earth.
A blend dominated by Malbec, this wine comes from one of the estates managed by the Marmande cooperative. It has fine tannins and attractively juicy black fruits. The wine is balanced with plenty of fruity acidity. Drink from 2019.
This is off-dry, similar to a kabinett in style. Scents of flowershop greens, green apple and lime give a zesty first impression, confirmed by crisp acids, light-medium body and a lingering, mouthwatering finish. The end result is balanced, delicate and intense at the same time.
The little subregion of Te Tuna Road, set apart from the vines in and around the village of Martinborough itself, is home to several fine vineyards. This is medium to full in body, with flavors of black cherry, menthol and toast, silky tannins and a long finish. Drink now–2025.
Bold lychee, honeydew and stone-fruit perfume adorns this varietally classic Gewürztraminer. Its tastes just a shade off dry, its hibiscus-nectar sweetness accenting sunny tangerine and peach flavors. Sunny acidity and integrated alcohol tie the package together smartly. Drink now through 2020.
This highly aromatic Sauvignon Blanc dishes out loads of pretty white peach and yellow cherry flavors backed by a bristling streak of acidity. It's a vibrant yet satisfyingly full-bodied wine with a pristine grapefruit finish. Drink now through 2020.
This medium-bodied wine comes across as a bit plump in the mouth, delivering plenty of pineapple, white grapefruit and nectarine flavors that firm up nicely on the dry, lingering finish.
Full-bodied, rich and a bit sweet, this plump wine offers up hints of honey, cinnamon toast and ripe pear and melon. Drink it before the end of 2017.
On the oaky side, but silky and long, this is a fine effort. Vanilla, cedar and baking spices, hints of cola and mocha all point to ripe fruit and ample new French oak. Drink now–2025.
Blackberry, cassis, tire rubber and black olive aromas include a note of vanilla. In the mouth, this cool-vintage Crianza is pinching and tannic. Berry and vanilla flavors are solid but not evolved, while this feels tight, tannic and raw on the finish. Given how cool 2013 was, this is fairly generous. Drink through 2022.
From organically grown grapes, this firmly structured red wine is stalky while also rich with potential. It is young, dense with tannins as well as black-currant fruit. The wine will need to age, so drink from 2019.
This is a stylish wine, fruity with red currants and herbs. It has a delicious crisp character as well as a salty tang, maybe from the nearby sea. The aftertaste is bright, packed with fruit. The wine is ready to drink.
The wine comes from the western end of the Côtes de Provence, from vines at the foot of the massive Aurelien mountain. It is light colored, but has plenty of ripe red fruits that are crisp, bright and direct. This is a delicious, refreshing wine. Drink now.
This is the top wine from the Sainte Roseline estate. With a perfect salmon-pink color, the wine is ripe and full of red fruits that are softly integrated with the acidity. It is a food-style of wine, lit by spice and finished with a crisp aftertaste. Drink now.
Meat, compost and leather notes mark the entry of this Syrah blended with smaller amounts of Mourvèdre and Petite Sirah. Light black pepper and red fruit flavors are sustained by a soft, round texture and lingering finish.
This is a pale colored wine, almost white. With its soft acidity, touch of pepper and bright red-berry fruits, it is exuberant, delicious and immediately ready to drink. The aftertaste gives the wine a further burst of acidity and crispness.
An amber-peach color and slight cloudiness signal that this dry wine is atypical. Its aromas are buttery and earthy, its flavors are savory and substantial (think melon and prosciutto), and the texture is unusually creamy, giving it a long, lingering finish. With great, supportive acidity and a touch of tannic grip, it's not a simple apéritif, calling instead for bold tapas or charcuterie.
Fresh, ripe, luscious black cherry notes abound on the nose and palate of this wine. It's medium bodied, round and smooth, with ample freshness to counter its exuberant fruit. Frehsness and a slight tannic grip make for a lip-smacking finish.
A touch of bergamot perfumes this wine's nose. The palate boasts a concentrated core of savoriness and ample fruit in the green spectrum: pear, lime and greengage. Lemony citrus flavors waft freely on the finish, proving dry and zippy.
Red cherry and plum scents beckon in the glass. The palate is equally friendly and fruit-forward, delivering plush, ripe but refreshing flavors with generous body. Those plum and cherry notes linger, accented with hints of cinnamon and pervaded by lively, refreshing acidity.
A touch of fennel and grass plays on the nose of this wine. The palate is juicy and fresh, with ripe and full-bodied yellow apple fruit countered by crispness. This is uncomplicated but clean and moreish, with a lemony note that lasts into the finish.
This fleshy, tropical wine offers a wealth of rich peach, pineapple and golden honey flavor in a medium-bodied frame. It finishes light and bright, with an undercurrent of toasted oak.
This ripe, juicy wine opens with yellow stone fruit, Spanish broom and faint nut aromas. The medium-bodied palate doles out ripe Golden Delicious apple and mature Bartlett pear flavors, while a pleasant bitter almond note backs up the finish.
Made from a mix of 58% Chardonnay and 42% Pinot Noir, this delivers sweet peach and homemade biscuit scents. A dry, seductive mousse gives it body, while moderate acidity—which presents as fresh lemon peel flavor—gives it lift.
Dark fruits, potent and polished, come cloaked in savory highlights, along with touches of molasses and Kahlua. It's a substantial effort, with concentrated cherry compote flavors at its core. Decant or cellar another couple of years for maximum impact.
With vines in the village of Lamarque close to the Gironde estuary, this estate is well placed to benefit from the warmth of the water. The wine, a blend of 55% Cabernet Sauvignon and 40% Merlot (with the remainder Petit Verdot) is richly structured and dense. It has firm tannins as well as perfumed black-currant fruit. The wine will be ready to drink from 2021.
Named after the Pontac family which in the 18th century owned large swathes of Bordeaux and its vineyards, this estate is based around a former hunting lodge. The wine is ripe and full, finely structured and with tight still-young acidity. Drink from 2022.
Peach and rose-focused potpourri scent the nose. The palate has great direction and freshness and a rich textured core that almost comes across as oily. The result is a perfect contrast between tangy freshness and rich fruit. Bursting fruit and perfume are countered by zesty citrus. The flavors last and last and the finish is dry.
Lively cherry juice, hibiscus, wet clay and mint aromas show on the nose of this estate bottling. There is a bright acidity on the palate, presenting assertive raspberry and plum flavors along with freshly turned soil.
This is a giant of a wine, packed to bursting with dark chocolate, black cherry, black pepper and clove flavors, all wrapped in a soft layer of tannins. Made of 63% Petite Sirah, 31% Cabernet Sauvignon and dashes of three other grapes, it has good depth, concentration and full body, and will make maximum impact at your next party.
Full bodied, creamy in texture and lush on the palate, this wine offers a thrilling mouthful of satisfaction. Menthol, vanilla and cedar notes frame ripe, plummy fruit, while the velvety finish features lingering spice. Drink now–2025.
This limited production wine advances the proposition that Pinot Gris can be substantial, complex and at least as ageworthy as the better Oregon Chardonnays. The mix of melon, white peach and lemon zest flavors, with compelling minerality, may inspire some additional cellar time. Drink now through 2024.
Dark and concentrated pomegranate and rosebud aromas meet with juniper and sweet pine needle on the nose of this bottling. The attack is a clean and flavorful, mixing dried cranberry and tangy cherry with thyme, marjoram and peppercorn, culminating in a camphor-like finish.
Deep red plum, dried rose, lavender and oak smoke show on the nose of this bottling from Rick Longoria's estate vineyard, while it also offers a sanguine, feral quality. The palate continues the intrigue, its dried seaweed and wild sagebrush notes giving nuance to the tart strawberry and cranberry fruit.
A gentle lift of crushed black cherry rises from the glass. There also is an edge of medicinal herb. The body is light and juicy, fresh and highly aromatic. There is concentration without weight, luxuriant fruit without plumpness. This is fresh and pure, lifted and profound. An utterly honest and uplifting rendition of Pinot Noir.
Brilliant, crystalline freshness tinged with chervil and lemon is the impression on the nose. The palate is rounder than the nose suggests but has the same brilliance and lightness of flavor. Sylvaner is an underrrated grape that is all about subtlety and herbal nuance. This lovely, expressive but light-bodied example has it in spades. Lemony freshness resonates long.
Generous and fruity in flavor and rich in texture, this is a wonderfully warm wine that's comforting to sip. It has mild tannins, a texture that seems to melt on the palate, and easy-drinking appeal.
Just a hint of pear peel rises from the nose. The palate is rich with glowing pear fruit, even a little warm, but utterly precise. All this is met with a vein of lemon freshness that brightens all the apples and pears. There is concentration and juiciness, concentration and purity. There is something very fluid and utterly moreish about this.
Earthy aromas of truffle, leather, dried herb and dark berry slowly take shape in this full-bodied red. Smooth and concentrated, the palate doles out fleshy wild cherry, raspberry compote, and savory orange zest and star anise notes, framed by fine-grained tannins. Drink 2019–2025.
This blend of 40% Malbec, 30% Merlot and 30% Cabernet Sauvignon opens with ripe blackberry, underbrush and cedar aromas. Concentrated and juicy, the palate doles out black currant, bilberry, mint and licorice flavors, framed by chewy tannins. Drink through 2025.
Alluring violet, perfumed berry, truffle and Mediterrenean herb aromas emerge in the glass. The palate is firm and packed with black cherry, raspberry and licorice flavors, with assertive, fine-grained tannins that give the finish grip. Give it time to fully develop. Drink after 2020.
This robust wine impresses with its white pepper, leathery meat and bright blue fruit. Full powered, the oak is subtle and supportive and the tannins soft and unobtrusive.
This tan-colored bubbly from stony soils smells complex, bready, yeasty and a lot like baked apple. A round, yeasty palate is cushioned like fine bedding, while yeasty flavors of bread and apple finish long. Drink through 2020.
You'll discover alluring aromas of grilled herb, saddle leather, cured meat and ripe berry in this enticing red. The palate is succulent and juicy, offering red cherry, crushed raspberry, white pepper and clove flavors. It's buttressed by bright acidity and youthfully firm, refined tannins for balance and a structure built for ageing. Drink 2018–2028.
In this exceptional vintage, the all-estate bottling over-delivers big time at this price. Brambly blackberry/kirsch flavors fill the mouth with sappy juicy flavors. The tannins are a bit stiff, and at first the wine hits a tannic wall, but more bottle age, aeration and/or aggressive decanting will open it up. The lengthy cinnamon-soaked finish hints at a stellar cellar life ahead.
Subtle power and a structure built for aging lift this wine above the crowd. It has deep and concentrated black cherry and cassis flavors, an abundance of fine-grained tannins, velvety texture, and a tasty, lingering finish. Best after 2019.
This aromatic Priorat is 72% Carignan and the rest Garnacha. Aromas of floral bath soap, cinnamon and cedar accent plum and berry scents. In the mouth, this is built like a tank. Spicy chocolaty black-plum and cassis flavors finish chewy and thick, with notes of mint and licorice. Drink through 2021.
This thick, toasty dessert wine spent more than two years in new French oak. It works. Buttery and rich, it gains significant concentration after blowing past some volatile aromas. Toasted nuts abound, and the silky finish lingers.
These 15-year-old vines deliver additional complexity, further enhanced by native yeast fermentation. This is a delicate wine, but not a wimpy one. Tart berry and cranberry fruit carries a taste of toasted grain as it does a graceful fade through the finish. Give it plenty of air and it really opens up! Drink now through 2022.
This has a balsamic nose of menthol, eucalyptus, new leather and chopped herb. On the palate, vibrant white pepper and licorice notes accent a core of Morello cherry and crushed raspberry fruit. It has a backbone of firm, polished tannins and bright acidity and will only improve over next decade.
Underbrush, chopped aromatic herb, dark spice and balsamic aromas come together in the glass. Firmly structured and elegant with a backbone of taut, refined tannins, the palate doles out ripe Marasca cherry, crushed raspberry, licorice and baking spice flavors. Drink 2020–2032.
Notable oaky aromas like cedar and clove join bold fruit and spice flavors in this medium-bodied, stylized wine from a classic producer. This bottling seems less overtly ripe and more spicy in style than recent vintages. On the palate, it oozes clove, tamarind, cardamom and black-cherry flavors. Best after 2019.
This is a fine example of what Barossa Shiraz is capable of at a realistic price. It's full bodied and richly textured, plush without being too soft. French oak brings a smoky, bacony element to the ripe blueberry fruit, plus a dusting of baking spices that lingers on the finish. Drink now–2025.
Creamy and plush may not be traditional Cabernet descriptors, but they're what this wine delivers. Vanilla and graham cracker notes swaddle mixed currant fruit in this big but cuddly teddy bear of a wine. Drink now–2022.
Light daffodil aromas meet with lemon curd, wet slate and the slightest touch of green apple skins. The palate is very chalky and mineral-driven, showing a bit of sour apple as it sits longer on the tongue. The finish is nicely mouth-watering.
Briny aromas of oyster shell blend with green onion, lime and matchstick scents on this sulfuric-smelling SB. Tangy and round, with an oily note to the mouthfeel, this tastes of salty lime, tangerine, saline solution and pickle brine.
The mix of tannic texture, perfumed strawberries and tight acidity in this wine works well. The wine is tight, steely and offers raspberry and red-currant flavors. Drink from the end of 2016.
Fermented in both oak and stainless steel, this serviceable white is salty and smooth, with plenty of Gravenstein apple on offer. Lingering acidity keeps it crisp and refreshing, before there's a touch of buttery oak.
Aggressive black-fruit aromas come with earthy, spicy notes that include licorice root. This feels tight, linear and a bit sharp. Flavors of plum, berry, pepper and toast set up a finish that's oaky, spicy and acidic.
A nose of fresh citrus fruit and toasted vanilla is followed by flavors of exotic pineapple fruit and spice. Its rich mouthfeel is balanced by an undercurrent of mineral briskness. Pair with fattier fish or poultry.
Light and fruity, the wine comes from the sandy soils of the Camargue Rhône-delta region, known for its rugged, indigenous horses. The wine is crisp with acidity and has a bright touch of red currants. The wine is dry, refreshing for an apéritif.
Belonging to the Stefani family for several generations, this estate has produced a tangy, zesty wine, textured and bright with red currant fruit flavors. It is so fresh and crisp with its lively, tight aftertaste.
Soft white peach and citrus aromas are touched by a wave of vanilla in this pretty white. On the palate, it offers full-bodied fruit and spice flavors but never loses its balance and finesse. A friendly and easy-going wine with enough body to pair against richer dishes.
This is a very friendly wine that is medium bodied, has a brownish tint to the color, slightly earthy aromas, warm fruit flavors like cooked cherries and a touch of brown sugar, plus a mellow lightly tannic texture.
Sticky tar, dense blackberry, leather, soy and lilacs combine for a thick nose on this well-priced, widely available bottling. Beef char, dense purple flowers, blackberry jam and tar consume the palate, which is chewy with a strong tannic structure.
This smooth and soft Chardonnay just hints at the oxidation found in the Vins Jaunes of Jura, giving it a full, ripe character with yellow fruits and a rounded texture. Produced by one of the many Tissots in Jura, across the valley from Burgundy, this rich wine is ready to drink.
This pleasant and straightforward Chardonnay comes in a hock bottle for no apparent reason. It's accented with pine needle aromas and flavors of resin and crisp apple. Forward and fruity, the time in barrel seems to have mostly just rounded it off, without adding noticeable flavors.
Here's a straightforward, crisp white that opens with aromas of orange blossom and citrus. The bright palate shows apricot, lime and lemon zest alongside refreshing acidity.
This opens with rather funky aromas of barnyard and game. The rustic aromas carry over to the palate along with overripe black-skinned berry, orange peel and grilled herb. Firm tannins provide structure.
This fresh, straightforward white offers aromas of lime, acacia flower and a whiff of Mediterranean herb. The bright palate offers lemon zest, unripe peach and bitter nut accompanied by bright acidity.
Honeysuckle and tropical fruit are noticeable as the primary scents. The straightforward palate offers lime, unripe apricot and a hint of bitter nut alongside fresh acidity.
A clonal selection, Gemini offers tart rhubarb and apple fruit. It's fresh and simple, lightly dotted with spring herbs. Drink now through 2020.
Soft and spicy honeysuckle notes hover pleasantly. The palate shows the same aromatic overtones and has a sprightly freshness. The finish is dry and lively. Drink soon.
The nose gives little away but the palate stands straight and upright with a slight tannic grip and honest, clean redcurrant and red-plum fruit. Edges of spice and soil make for an autumnal feel. It's a very classic, honest, light red.
Slightly confected cherry notes open onto a rather soft, somewhat dilute palate with friendly, easy fruit. This might work as a refreshing summer red when chilled.
Made from mostly Merlot grapes that went direct-to-press to preserve color and tannin, this is a dark, pink and nutty wine, full-bodied and somewhat intense. While dry, the fruit leans toward the tangy end of the spectrum. It's food friendly and thirst quenching.
Earthy aromas of scorched soil, game and overripe berry lead the nose while the evolved palate offers dried cherry and grilled sage alongside austere tannins. Give the tannins another year or two to soften but then drink before the remaining fruit dries up.
Peppery pear notes signal freshness and ease on a cushioned palate that is softer than you might expect.
This wine has ripe red fruits, a touch of caramel and some spice. A definite mineral and tannic structure gives the wine a textured character. It needs food to show at its best.
This is an elegantly subdued white, at an attractive price, from a part of the valley that does well growing this variety. A sweetness of pear and vanilla interweave across crisp acidity, without intrusion or confusion from oak.
This is a smooth, easy-drinking white, ready for the patio or picnic blanket, or to serve as an apéritif, that sings in bright acidity, a balanced body and an exuberance of lime and melon.
Fully 25% of the wine is Syrah, which adds color and helps to bolster the fruit. Red berries provide a light base for a wine with plenty of barrel flavors of toast and coffee grounds.
Tight and spicy, this offers a mix of red fruits, strong streaks of clove and licorice. There's an underlying taste of stem, and the acids leave a chalky aftertaste.
Peach and yeast aromas are mostly fresh. This Xarello has a citrus-like palate with the suggestion of spritz. Melon, green banana and papaya flavors finish with mild pithy bitterness but nothing off-putting.
Grapefruit, pear and vanilla mark this medium-bodied, moderately dense and youthful wine that also offers peeks of caramel and toffee midpalate. The weight and length give way to a zesty, pithy finish.
This wine is unusually taut and crisp for a Châteauneuf-du-Pape, with cherry and cranberry fruit framed by hints of earth and leather. Drink now–2020.
This wine is scented with apple and peach and a whiff of white flowers. It's crisp on the tongue with white stone fruits, grapefruit and lemon peel.
A maderized tint and baked, raisiny flavors make for a rich but flat bouquet. Following suit, this feels heavy, with fig-like richness and choppy tannins. Flavors of raisin, vanilla, coconut and stewed berry fruits end chunky, with spice, vanilla and saucy notes.
This is half Cabernet Sauvignon with the balance Merlot (38%) and Syrah. Aromas of vanilla, leafy herbs, barrel spices and dried cherries lead to full bodied fruit flavors with the oak showing prominently.
Blueberry and raspberry aromas are ripe, grapy and feature a dash of cocoa. This is lively, punchy and healthy in feel. Medicinal plum and berry flavors are a touch salty, while this finishes with ripeness and good overall balance.
Creamy aromas of vanilla and toasted marshmallow are noted on this fresh blend of Tempranillo and Trepat. Although the palate is short and limited, this offers earthy flavors of plum, currant, tomato and herbs. A lightly baked finish is integrated and mildly complex.
This soft, ripe wine is full of ready-to-drink fruits. Fresh apple and smooth puréed pear flavors are nicely lifted by the acidity. It's a clean, fruity wine, finishing freshly.
Light in color and almost a shade of green, this dessert wine offers aromas of honeydew melon, sharp lime, jasmine and a touch of petrol-like citrus pith. The palate is sweet but pillowy in texture, with Key lime, honeysuckle and herb-inflected honey flavors.
This wine has an initial strong tannic element that submerges the red fruits. As it opens, the wine reveals more juiciness, berry flavors and fresh acidity. It's still young and needs to be aged. Drink from 2018.
The extra richness often found in Pouilly Fumé is apparent here, giving this wine weight as well as a rounded texture that hints at minerality. Fresh and fruity with apple and ripe pear flavors, it's ready to drink now.
This is an aromatically ephemeral wine with a quick finish that combines notes of anise, pear and green apple around a smoky core of oak that is unctuous on the palate.
This blends grapes from four separate vineyards, matured in older barrels. It's best enjoyed young, with the freshness that brings to the sharp-edged, brambly berry fruit. A whiff of pine resin and ample herbal accents add further complexity.
Aromas of scorched earth, Asian spice and mature black-skinned fruit lead the way. The straightforward palate offers dried black cherry, crushed anise, clove and grilled sage alongside loosely knit tannins. Drink through 2019.
From vines between 20 and 40 years old, this is an intensely fresh wine with crisp red-currant flavors and tight acidity. It is a classic food rosé, too dry and acid for an apéritif but wonderful to cut into any food. Drink now.
This ripe, rich and soft wine has a good balance between its apple fruit flavors and crisper lemon and gooseberry. The definite tang to the aftertaste gives a great lift. Drink from 2017.
Tightly reduced aromas make it difficult to isolate the citrus, herb and mineral notes. It's a shame as the tart, lively nut oil and pineapple flavors are quite enjoyable.
This Bordeaux-style blend is 28% Merlot, 28% Cabernet Franc, 41% Cabernet Sauvignon and 3% Petit Verdot. Sweet scents of cracker open into a wine with pretty red plum and details of coffee and chocolate. It does not in any way reflect the rather high-listed alcohol, but seems more elegant and lightly refined.
There is more of the stemmy, herbal side of the grape than many tasters might wish for, but plum and cranberry fruit flavors are also in the mix. The tannins have an earthy, grippy character.
Aromas of toast, roasted coffee bean, baked plum and a whiff of coconut lead the nose. The palate offers dried black cherry, espresso and a green note of sage alongside tightly packed, astringent tannins that leave a raspy finish. Give the tannins a few more years to soften then drink to capture the remaining fruit richness.
Plum, cherry and raspberry aromas come with a note of bath soap. Fresh and solid across the palate, this Bobal tastes like it smells, while the finish shows a candied element along with a touch of chocolate.
While delicate in frame, layers of exotic spice and vanilla amidst creamy peach and tangerine flavors lend flamboyance to this Chardonnay. It's forward and a bit oaky, but finishes vibrantly and briskly.
Leesy, cheesy aromas fall apart as this struggles a bit to present a clean front side. Almost dilute in feel, this tastes of cidery apple, nectarine and lees. On the finish, a hint of popcorn rises up.
Charred-earth, espresso, French oak and menthol aromas unfold on this full-bodied red while a plum note lingers in the background. The subdued palate is rather evolved, showing raisin, toast, spirits and licorice but not much fruit richness. Assertive, close grained tannins provide the bracing framework.
This easygoing red opens with delicate aromas of violet and red berry. The fresh, easy-drinking palate offers juicy wild cherry and a light note of white pepper alongside pliant tannins and bright acidity. It's made for sheer drinking pleasure so enjoy soon.
Cherry cough drop and vanilla aromas have a slight leafiness to them. This feels choppy, bumpy and raw but also fruity, while plum and strawberry flavors show vanilla and wood-grain notes. A resiny oak character is prominent on the finish.
This salmon-colored rosé suggests aromas of powdered sugar, red raspberry and dried herbs. It is soft on the entry with a touch of sweetness and flavors of Red Delicious apple, Turkish delight and marzipan.
Scorched earth, menthol, cooking spice and mature plum aromas take shape in the glass. The forward palate offers dried black cherry, coffee and licorice alongside smooth, polished tannins. Drink soon to capture the remaining fruit flavor.
Aromas of leafy underbrush, grilled porcini, scorched soil and steeped prune lead the nose. The robust, jammy palate offers dried black cherry, espresso, coconut, roasted coffee bean and a confectionary note alongside astringent tannins. Scorching alcohol dominates the close.
Aged partially in old oak barrels, there's a distinctly savory, spicy tone to pressed apple and pear aromas on this reserve Riesling. Light-bodied and off-dry in style, the palate boasts honeyed apple flavors cut by a zesty streak of lemon-lime acidity. Lifted floral tones lift the finish.
This opens with aromas of dark berry, toast, espresso and a whiff of dark cooking spice. The bracing palate offers unripe cherry, licorice, powdered sage and toasted oak alongside bracing tannins that leave an astringent, mouth-puckering finish.
Whiffs of smoke and crushed minerals lend a savory tone to bright honey and tangerine flavors in this unusually styled Gewürztraminer. It's not varietally classic, but refreshingly brisk in acidity and quite quaffable. Drink now.
This is a gentle, perfumed wine that is ripe and deliciously fruity. It does have a more herbal, green side as well as a tangy texture but the main impression is of a wine that is soft and ready to drink.
Sandalwood and a shovelful of fresh earth mark the entry of this wine aromatically. A soft, tart expression of the variety, it offers bittersweet tannin and dark cherry at its core.
Plum, slate and cherry blossoms show on the nose of this wine, grown along the Foxen Canyon corridor. Red fruit and hibiscus highlight the top of the sip, followed by brick minerality, bright acidity and a spice that leans toward anise.
Aromas of crushed dark-skinned berry, violet, clove and a hint of chopped herb lead the nose. The lean palate offers raw raspberry, sour cherry and ground pepper alongside firm tannins. A note of bitter walnut closes the finish.
Flat stewy prune-like aromas are low on life but not off-putting. This feels wide grabby and tannic, while jammy flavors of raspberry and plum finish chunky and expansive, but also tannic and wan. Drink now.
Perfumed aromas of cherry, forest floor and cinnamon bring appeal to this light-colored wine. It's delicate and airy in style, with cranberry flavors on the finish.
Black cherry, chipped slate and an earthy nutmeg character show on the nose of this stylishly labeled bottling. Medium in weight, it offers energetic and tart cranberry-cherry flavors as well as a menthol element on the palate, which is tangy throughout and wipes up clean.
From Louis Max vineyards in the Côte Chalonnaise, this creamy, almost honeyed wine has a ripe character and full-bodied yellow and crisp pear fruit flavors. It's a cut above a basic white Burgundy with its generous texture and the acidity at the end. Drink now.
This is a light, crisp, simple 100% expression of the variety. It shines best in its aromas of honeysuckle and peach.
A whiff of spice amidst freshly pressed apples and pears gives this bright, easy going Kabinett an autumnal feel. A swirl of honey enriches the midpalate, finishing with lemon-tea sweetness. Begin drinking now.
A rich, thick and oaky 100% varietal, this comes from the Green Valley area, and possesses power and flavor in abundance. Baked apple and pear dance around lighter remembrances of lemon soufflé, finishing in a touch of ginger and nutmeg.
Lots of dark-fruit aromas and fresh cherry-berry flavors keep this medium-bodied wine lively and easy to enjoy. Light spicy, nutty flavors and a touch of milk chocolate add interest, while the texture is smooth.
This verges on dilute flavors with alcohol not quite reaching 12%. Light scents of plum and sassafras continue with accents of lime and mineral. Try this with light fare that won't overwhelm the flavors.
This seems slightly underripe, with tart fruit that has as much apple as berry character. Light hints of cola and earth fade into a lemony finish.
While a touch brambly on the nose, ripe rich tangerine and yellow plum flavors take the spotlight in this sunny off-dry Riesling. It's plush on the palate but pleasant, accessible and forward. Drink now.
This is a solid mineral and tannin dominated wine. It has black currant fruits which are still buried by the tense tannins and stalky texture. It therefore needs some time to develop and broaden out. Drink from 2018.
Aged two years in French and American oak, this is a dark and meaty wine, with black fruits and a hint of blood. There's a bit of a hole in the midpalate, but streaks of cola and licorice revive the finish.
This wine has aromas of lemongrass and apricot with a touch of petrol. It offers flavors of peach, apricot, vanilla and jasmine. It is very soft in the mouth, and the bright finish is marked by floral notes.
Rose, mature berry, kitchen spice and a whiff of leather lead the nose. On the straightforward palate, notes of licorice and sage add interest to the dried black cherry core alongside firm tannins. A black pepper note closes the somewhat fleeting finish.
The wine is structured, flavored with the wood aging as much as the fruit. It has a spicy burnt character that contrasts with the more juicy black currant flavors. Drink from 2017.
Iron, pomegranate and dust aromas show on the nose of this entry-level bottling from the Los Gatos producer. Bright red fruits and solid brown spice show on the palate that proves light, airy and easy as it dances across the tongue with energy.
The simplest and fruitiest of the Cahors made at Gaudou, this is still a structured wine that has some firm, very young tannins that need to round out. Plenty of fruity, fresh black-currant flavor is cut by crisp acidity. The wine will need to age, so drink from 2016.
The Pannell family, who founded Margaret River's Moss Wood in 1969, moved on in the mid-1990s to Pemberton, where it felt conditions were more suited to Burgundian varieties. This is a rather full-bodied Pinot Noir, with supple tannins and a long, slightly dusty finish. Light resiny notes and rooty scents add complexity to modest cherry fruit. Drink now–2020.
Scratchy cherry and plum aromas are woody and minerally, to an extent. This feels crimped and hard, while heavy oak lends a hickory note to roasted medicinal red fruit flavors. A woody dry spicy finish is good despite rawness and heat.
Jammy muscled-up aromas of blackberry show hints of spice, especially red chili flake. This feels full, round and comfortable, with moderate tannic clamp. Herbal black-fruit flavors finish bold, with a touch of dry bitter oak.
Crisp almost scratchy aromas of herbal red fruits are a bit strained. This feels solid, with ample volume. Earthy flavors of tomato sauce, mixed spices, stewed plum and cassis finish long and herbal, with some grace.
Mature plum, crushed violet and dark cooking spice aromas come together in the glass. The firm palate delivers dried cherry, blackberry extract and licorice alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink soon to capture the remaining fruit.
Fresh and fruity, this easy-drinking red delivers aromas and flavors of black cherry, blackberry, black pepper and a hint of anise. Thanks to bright acidity, it can be paired with almost any dish.
Outspoken, delineated notes of candied lemon and peach meld with a bold aroma of lychee. The attack feels a touch slack, but the acids slowly gain steam across the palate, giving the wine a sense of delayed energy.
Toasted hazelnut and apple flavors infuse this wine's light- to medium-bodied frame, which comes with a coarse, foamy bead.
Reserved notes of desiccated black fruit, loam and tobacco carry onto the medium-bodied, subtly textured palate. High-strung acids mark the finish.
A ripe rosé that's spoiled by a touch of sulfur. Get past that and the red fruits are crisp and layered with acidity. The wine needs until 2015 for the sulfur to go.
Tightly herbaceous, this is also a friendly, fruity wine. With bright acidity, crisp lemon and grapefruit flavors, it's cool and bright. Drink now.
The nutty aromas of Chenin Blanc dominate this fresh and apple fruity wine. It has crisp acidity, a lively and light texture and light, dancing aftertaste. Drink now.
The wine is tight, apple-y and bone-dry. A hint of honey gives extra, attractive dimension. Acidity cuts through this very young wine that will be better in 2015
Touches of toast and tannin give enough structure. The red berry fruits taste firm and extracted, giving a bitter edge. It's a wine that brings out the structured character of Pinot Noir rather than its fruit.
There's a tension between leanness and grip in this Cab, from the mountainous terrain of Atlas Peak. Black tea and tarragon intermingle between near-hidden layers of black fruit.
Rich and so smooth, this is like drinking a syrup. The tannins are so soft, so cushioned by the ripe berry and plum fruits. The real contrast is with the acidity at the end that gives a final lift. Drink now.
Dry, leafy, spicy aromas have a perfumed accent. A pushy, forward-feeling palate houses similar oaky flavors of cherry. On the finish, it turns woody, with resiny flavors and drawing tannins.
Earthy, rubbery red-berry aromas lead to a hard-drilling palate with fiery cherry flavors and an allotment of herbal mint. The hollow finish leaves a salty flavor and heat.
Potpourri, toast and leather notes transfer onto the middleweight palate, which comes with burnished tannins and a touch of bitterness.
Peach and apple aromas are light. Peachy acidity carries the palate toward basic flavors of orange and nectarine, while the finish feels healthy but low on flavor and character.
Apple and tropical fruit aromas are mild. This feels round, creamy and soft, with moderate acidity. Flavors of walnut, banana, melon and vanilla finish creamy, without much follow through.
Nervy acids and extra-fine powdery tannins frame flavors of wild berries, crimini mushrooms and wilted flowers.
This herbal wine has grassy plum aromas and a touch of cowhide on the nose. Aggressive tannins and sharp acidity run alongside leafy plum and raspberry flavors. Chocolaty oak with vanilla sweetness helps things along.
Aromas of smoky rubber match damp dark-fruit notes. A tannic, tough mouthfeel and cool-green flavors of minty blackberry finish with hot notes of toast and menthol.
A soft, light and fruity wine that's totally ready to drink. With apple and quince fruit flavors, fresh acidity and a light steeliness to freshen it up, it's simple and good as an apéritif.
Lightly wood aged, this is a rich wine that has tropical fruits as well as toast and pepper from the alcohol. Unfortunately, there's a streak of citrus that sits awkwardly with the rest of the wine. Drink now.
A wine of medium weight and alcohol that tastes bigger on the palate due to the tannins. There's dullness to the fruit, which shows blackberry and cherry amidst a trace of clove before a hint of greenness on the finish.
A wine that's all about fresh apple and lemon fruitiness. An attractive, zesty touch that adds to the up-front, lively character.
Nuts and lemons are the main flavors of this light and fruity wine. Acidity cuts through the lightly mineral texture. Drink now.
Toasted almond aromas follow through to give this wine a creamy, nutty character. There's vanilla, soft acidity and a final thrust of acidity.
This wine is all about fruitiness, its crisp texture merely an aid to the lively acidity and herbaceous character. Cool and fresh, it delivers a bright aftertaste of lime juiciness.
Heavily dominated by wood aging, this wine should be showing its fruit by now, but isn't. It has bitterness, layers of spice and smoky wood. Only the aftertaste brings some freshness and acidity.
There's a slightly sour smell to this offering from Coomber Family, who produce “wines for animal lovers.” However, the sipping experience is pleasant enough, with hard cherry candy, a range of spices and a lingering licorice finish.
A concentrated and toasty raspberry flavor permeates the light- to medium-bodied palate, which is endowed with crisp acids.
Not quite dry, but certainly not medium dry, this is a hard wine to place. It has yeasty flavors and and an acidity that seems unbalanced. The aftertaste, with its baked-apple flavor, is more attractive.
Resiny oak aromas drown out peanut brittle and apple notes. This is acidic and briny in the mouth, with a cidery complex. Oak and sour apple flavors finish chunky, woody and briny.
This is a ripe, honeyed, single vineyard wine. It's textured and with a hint of steel, but the main character is rich fruit, peaches, apricots and quince. Warm and rich, it can be drunk now, but will be better in a year.
A fruity, fragrant wine that has both a crisp, steely texture and a riper, more tropical element. Both characters are held together by the toast and fresh acidity. The wine is ready to drink, but would be better in 2015.
A very attractive wine that has ripe yellow fruits that are cut by acidity and citrus flavors. The texture is soft, rounded and lightly creamy. It's can age a few months, so wait until the end of 2014.
A classically firm wine, it gains weight and richness from the juicy black plum fruits. The firm, dry structure underlies the natural ripe fruitiness. It needs to soften out, so don't drink before 2017.
While the tannins are still powerful and dense, the wine has rich berry fruits and juicy acidity that give freshness. It's ripe, well balanced, and full bodied, with a dark, concentrated character at the end. Drink from 2016.
With hard tannins, sharp acids and dry, somewhat austere mouthfeel, this wine, blended with a drop of Malbec, distinguishes itself for its complexity. Blackberries, black currants, cassis liqueur and espresso flavors combine for interest. Yet the wine doesn't seem to be an ager. It needs rich, fatty meats and cheeses to balance the astringency.
A lively, fruity and perfumed wine this is just what a young Fleurie should be. Structure supports the ripe cherry fruits and floral character. Its tannins will soon soften and leave a ripe wine with fruitiness.
This fresh, cherry fruit flavored wine blends fruit from Beaujolais Villages and Morgon. It is ripe, while also crisp and bright. The soft tannins, juicy berry fruits and acidity give a fruity while dry finish. Drink now.
At 12g/L residual sugar, this just barely qualifies as dry. Fruit flavors suggest lemon curd and green pineapple, and there's an interesting savory note. But flatness across the palate keeps the score from going higher.
The mint-green bottle color presages the minty flavors of this dry, crisp wine. The fruit feels delicately balanced between underripe and fine, with suggestions of white peach and mango. It shows some real complexity, and the all-important acidity is wonderful.
This medium-bodied wine conveys fragrances of yellow flowers and exotic fruit. The palate offers ripe apple, mature pear and white peach alongside fresh acidity. It closes on an almond note.
Ready for drinking now with its raspberries, currants, persimmons and oak. The acidity is bright, and the finish is clean and spicy. Pair now with lamb dishes.
This vibrant wine begins with aromas of apples, stone fruit and mineral. The savory palate offers ripe Bartlett pear, citrus and peach alongside bright acidity. It closes on a bitter almond note.
This blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Syrah and 10% Sangiovese opens with aromas of toasted oak, espresso, black fruit and whiffs of green pepper. The densely concentrated, low-acid palate is one-dimensional, delivering fleshy black cherry and bell pepper accented with roasted coffee bean and sweet vanilla. Drink soon.
It's loaded with juicy green apple, white peach and lemon sensations accompanied by a light mineral note. Crisp acidity gives a clean, quenching finish.
Blended from Marsanne and Viognier in equal proportions, this wine is marked by ripe, opulent mango, peach, orange, vanilla and honey flavors. It feels sweet as you taste it, but the finish is dry.
It's properly dry and brisk in acidity, with a light, silky mouthfeel framing sour cherry candy, cranberry and pomegranate flavors. Drink now.
The second label of Alorna, Portal da Aguia wines develop early. This bright and fruity red is based around soft tannins, very ripe fruits and a juicy, full-in-the-mouth texture. It needs little time to age, so drink from the end of 2014.
A fifty-fifty blend of Sangiovese and Syrah, this densely concentrated wine has aromas that suggest underbrush, wet leaves, black berries and prune. The palate delivers fleshy black cherry, raisin, black pepper, espresso, bitter dark chocolate and a sugary vanilla note alongside solid tannins. It's at its ideal drinking window so enjoy soon.
This straightforward, medium-bodied Pinot Grigio opens with floral aromas and a whiff of tropical fruit. The round palate offers juicy Bartlett pear and green apple alongside fresh acidity.
Floral aromas recall jasmine and other spring flowers along with a whiff of graphite. The linear palate offers yellow peach, golden apples, citrus and a mineral note. White almond marks the finish.
Smoky and dark, in both aroma and flavor, this hits quickly with flavors of black cherry, chocolate and espresso. The finish is tight and quick.
This refined, vibrant Pinot Bianco opens with floral aromas and apple scents. The juicy yellow apple carries over to the palate along with a refreshing citrus note and crisp acidity that gives a clean, quenching close.
This opens with intense floral aromas and a whiff of candied citrus. The slightly sweet palate offers lemon drops, exotic fruit and notes of honey and almond.
Subdued aromas of Alpine wild flowers, earth and mineral come with a whiff of hay. The reserved palate offers green apples, pineapple and mineral notes. It has nice weight and a smooth texture.
This is a spicy, rich, smooth wine, immediately attractive and ready to drink. It has ripe tannins, black fruits in abundance and delicious acidity to give a lift. It's a classic barbecue wine and great for summer parties.
This opens with aromas of canned pears packed in syrup, lemon peel and mineral. The palate suggests sweet golden apple and lemon drop balanced by fresh acidity. It closes on a dry note.
This is a rich, ripe wine that is full of black fruits and fine, dusty tannins. It's full-bodied, the fruitiness rounded out with some light wood aging. Juicy and fruity at the end, this could age for a year or two, so drink from 2016.
Made from old vines, this concentrated wine has weight and a tight, mineral texture. Pears and hints of yellow fruits combine with acidity and a contrasting touch of honey. Drink from 2015.
This is a ripe, fruity wine that is firmly structured. It has rich tannins, a touch of licorice as well as black plum flavors and acidity to balance. With its dry texture, solid backbone and fresh aftertaste, it will be ready to drink from 2016.
Rounded aromas of melon, lemon, apple and a touch of passionfruit frame the nose on this blend of 70% Viognier, 20% Grenache Noir and 10% Chardonnay. Good acidity wraps flavors of honeydew, guava and smoked nectarine drizzled in honey.
Rich aromas like Anjou pears and rose petals combine with generous ripe pear and vanilla flavors. It feels full-bodied but is light in alcohol and has a soothing texture. Good acidity balances the ripeness and the finish lingers.
A measure of Syrah was added to this Cinsault, probably to give additional heft. Nonetheless, the wine remains wispy and light, a layering of strawberry, rhubarb and wild spice playing amongst a field of herb and white pepper.
This wine also contains small percentages of Petite Sirah and Grenache to good effect, providing a soft and approachable entry of well-balanced black fruit and leather.
A direct-pressed rosé, cotton-candy pink in color, this wine is dry, light and under 13% alcohol. It offers touches of grass and herby minerality, faint swirls of white peach playful on the tongue. Served chilled, this makes for a delightful apéritif to go with oysters on the half shell.
Cola and earthy berry aromas float over a slightly herbaceous note. This blend is narrow and tannic on the palate, with berry, spice and herbal flavors. The finish shows pleanty of oak in the form of mocha and coffee flavors.
Initially the wine seems aromatic, soft and smooth, however dark tannins soon appear. It's a dense wine, boasting a firm core of blackcurrant tones and considerable acidity. It will need some aging, so drink from 2017.
This rich, rewarding wine boasts a powerful nose of wild game, blackberry candy, pine tar and blood. The tannins are chewy and the flavors remain in the stewed blackberry range, a nice partner for dessert of chocolate cake.
Concentrated, ripe aromas of blackberry and cassis come with an undertone of raisin. This is tannic and lively on the palate, with juicy acidity. Flavors of dark fruits are satisfying but short on depth and complexity, while the finish is compact and tannic, with dark-fruit flavors. Drink through 2016.
Aged in stainless steel for just about a year, this offers swirls of vanilla and lemon around richer crème brûlée, the wine viscous and lively in acidity. A floral note of gardenia invites initially, followed by a crisp, clean midpalate and dry, hefty finish.
Solid, dry and very tannic, this is a firm 75% Merlot, 25% Cabernet Franc wine. Flavors of licorice and oak aging (40% new oak) point to a dense and tough wine that needs to soften. It has acidity and layers of black fruits at the back. Hold this wine, with its potential, until 2017.
Bold and ripe, this is packed with red fruits and fresh acidity from an 85% Merlot and 15% Cabernet Franc blend. While the tannins are present, they have a walk-on part, leaving the stage for the rich and juicy fruits. That makes it a wine to drink soon, from 2016.
Assembled from the same lots as the winery's more expensive varietal wines, this high-powered, Bordeaux-style blend is one of Walla Walla's best values. Big and bursting with dark-fruit flavors of fig, black cherry and cassis, the barrel aging adds espresso and chocolate in generous amounts. There's noticeable heat on the finish, but no lack of potent flavor.
This no-herbicide, hand-picked, hilltop Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon-Petit Verdot blend is rich with attractive acidity and ripe strawberry fruits. Its tannins present a structure for fruity texture. A wine from Bordeaux wine guru Professor Denis Dubourdieu's stable, it has concentration and a dense dark aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
Smoke and dried tarragon lend savory complexity to notes of honeysuckle and lanolin on this nuanced off-dry Riesling. It's initially quite floral on the palate, but tart tangerine acidity and a shock of minerals lend a cool, alpine feel that lingers.
Blueberry liqueur and cigar box aromas greet the nose on this blend of Tempranillo, Syrah and Grenache, which spent 42 months in barrel and one year in bottle. There are oaky tannins and a decent acidity that lingers long, surrounded by dark purple fruits, toasted coconut and a touch of vanilla.
The berry liqueur aromas common to Core Wine's extended barrel-aging program emerge even on this Grenache. The flavors are more varietally on-point, with raspberry fruit leather, chocolate-covered cherries and a still-strong acidity.
This is 90% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Merlot, aged in American oak, half of it new. Inviting in spicy pepper and violet perfume, the medium body is awash in black cherry and berry, with a layer of subtle smoke popping in along the long finish.
This is a juicy Sangiovese, rustic and savory in cherry and plum with soft tannins and an underbelly of garden herbs. Easy to quaff, it's an ideal pizza wine.
Widely accessible and hedonistic aromas of cherry pie with a tinge of wild mint lead the nose on this young but ready county blend. The palate is framed with oak influence and the associated tannins, as well as plum and ripe cherry fruit. It's unusual that this 2013 is on the market after 10 months in barrel.
Honeydew and mango notes lend tropical flair to apple and pear flavors in this fruit-forward, easy drinking Chardonnay. Dry and medium bodied in style, it's balanced by a stream of zesty lime acidity and a touch of saline mineral on the finish.
Sangiovese is still rather rare in the Walla Walla Valley, but if this is any indication of the potential, it should become a distinctive and valued variety as the vines mature. Lovely aromatics of berry, spice, cedar and toast wrap into a pretty wine with flavors of light cherry, ash and a suggestion of underlying minerality.
Brown dust, plum jam, red cherry and black tobacco power the nose on this medium-bodied Cab. It's alluring on the palate with dark fruit, mouthwatering spices and a crème brûlée sense to the whole package.
Medium in weight and body, this offers juicy black cherry fruit around a core of dry tannins. The overall texture is soft enough to enjoy now, the finish savory in clove.
A little over half Syrah with a balance of Merlot, barrel fermented in French and American oak—20% new—it shows notes of clove, dusty spice, and blackberry. The palate is medium bodied and flavorful with slightly astringent tannins with tart cherry and cranberry notes on the finish.
Jammy blackberry and boysenberry aromas are fruity and full. This modern-style Tannat shows a saturated, tannic palate that's jammy in the center. Flavors of dark fruit, toasty oak and mint finish with hints of graphite, rubber and leftover oak-related char. Drink through 2018.
Fresh, herbaceous green notes waft from nose to finish on this elegantly balanced Cabernet Sauvignon. Succulent, ripe plums and cherries add suppleness and body, but it's kept in check by brisk acidity and a lingering mineral finish.
A blend of Canyon Vineyard Ranch and Summit View vineyards, it shows appealing notes of vanilla, clove, flowers and cocoa. It's a big, burly mouthful of a wine with firm, slightly dry tannins that need some time to settle in. Best after 2016.
With good concentration, this still-young Riesling has potential. It's aromatic, with hedgerow aromas, summer fruits and bright acidity. There is a juicy background along with a more textured character that is ready for that aging. Drink from 2016.
A straight, clean, very fruity wine that is bright, steely and crisp. It's light, fresh, aromatic and full of white fruits, with a tight lemon-zest texture. Drink now.
Though light in color, this flagrantly floral expression of the variety offers a crème brûlée-like richness on the nose. The palate is a different story—all tart fruit, lifted acidity and gravelly minerality.
This inaugural release of this wine is cherry in both color and flavor, framed with tangy grapefruit-like acidity. Medium in body and plush in texture, it's a full celebration of the variety, with rose petal and cherry cola nuances.
Fresh citrus and pear notes govern the nose and palate of this light-bodied, zippy and refreshing wine. It's peppery and zesty at its core, with a lip-smacking and very invigorating finish.
Crisp strawberry, rose petal, peach flesh and a wet cement aromas show on the nose of this bottling from a winery just behind Cambria. The palate tingles with acidity, delivering ripe nectarine and plum flesh flavors, further enlivened by a touch of sea salt.
Buttery vanilla and baked cherry aromas make for a pretty and plump entry to this bottling from a vineyard in the heart of the appellation. Approachable plum and cherry flavors meet baking spice on the palate, the texture soft and acidity ample.
Although restrained on the nose, this wine leads with lovely, sprightly fresh flavors. Its tannins provide grip and are just a little drying, offsetting the red berry and cherry notes. It's balanced, fresh and moreish in its cherry-toned fruit. Try it with a slight chill.
Complexities of cedar, vanilla and dark toast integrate elegantly into this rich intensely blackberried wine. It's still vibrantly fruity, yet showing developing nuances of earth and mineral as well. Briskly composed and fringed in supple tannins, it finishes on lingering tones of bramble and spice.
This wine is a blend of Les Collines, Stone Valley, Seven Hills, Pepper Bridge and Summit View fruit. The aromas of plum, stem and herb haven't yet fully revealed themselves. The flavors are lush and layered, with the tannins bringing a touch of astringency on first pour, settling out over time. Best after 2018 or with a short decant.
Waxy lightly toasted aromas of yellow apple are more subtle than popping. This barrel-fermented wine offers good weight and balance along with quiet flavors of spiced apple and vanilla. A sophisticated clean finish is lightly oaked in flavor and smooth in feel.
Bright red berry fruit meets smoky undertones of peppered meat, seasoned further with licorice and cola. Full-bodied and robust, the wine's tannins are grippy and supportive.
Classic varietal aromas of hay, tomato vine and honeydew melon lift out of the glass. The structured, polished palate doles out exotic fruit, peach, and graphite notes while tangy acidity keeps it balanced.
Woodsmoke, bramble and sharp raspberry sorbet aromas show on the nose of this appellation blend from winemaker Kevin Law and actress Challen Cates. Sour cranberry and tart plum skin flavors show on the palate, along with darker nutmeg-like spices.
This wine's yellow flower, Mediterranean brush and citrus aromas will grab your attention. On the full-bodied palate, a white almond note underscores ripe Bartlett pear, nectarine and candied lemon flavors while a mineral note energizes the finish.
Tart raspberry fruit limned with orange peel provides excellent definition across the palate. It's bright and tangy, with the balance and construction to develop nicely over the next five to eight years. Drink now through 2025.
This is a more serious style of rosé. It is structured with an edge of tannins that lead to richness as well as piles of delicious red-berry fruits and considerable balanced acidity. Owned by the Fabre family, this vineyard dates back to 1910. The estate produces the wine, although it is bottled by the Saint-Tropez cooperative. Drink now.
Named for farmer David Osgood's beloved hat, this blend of Zinfandel and Petite Sirah shows plump boysenberry, black raspberry, peppercorn and wet rock scents. Dense tannins dominate the palate, framing plush red plum, dark strawberry and clove-like spice flavors.
Like most of Neil Collins' wines, this blend of 63% Grenache, 19% Zinfandel and 18% Petite Sirah draws from the region's intriguing, oldest, dry-farmed vineyards. It shows earthy wet clay, boysenberry and anise notes on the nose, while the palate delivers turned loam, wild thyme, pepper, soy and black plum flavors.
Although not super complex, this wine offers a great taste of little used grapes like Counoise and Cinsault. A sharp red cinnamon spice note kicks off the nose, with rose petal and cranberry scents that follow. The palate offers candied sour cherry and peppercorn flavors.
This is a smooth, beautifully ripe wine. It is well balanced, with crisp red and orange fruits adding a refreshing background to the spice and acidity. This finely made wine is ready to drink.
Light in color, this wine brings aromas of peppermint, herb, sarsaparilla and spice. The flavors are light and transparent, showing a very pretty sense of styling.
Concentrated red fruits are matched to lushly toasty barrel flavors. This ripe and forward wine is ready right now. Textural in the mouth, it piles on the nuances, with toasted coconut, vanilla tea and a touch of stem threading through the finish.
A generous ripe wine that has tannins that have been tamed by the dominance of the black fruitiness. The wine is smooth, ready to drink with its soft generous texture. Great fruit and rich tannins are well integrated. The wine finishes with a lift of acidity.
A bright, floral fragrance invites one to further explore this softly structured wine. It's layered with ripe red fruit, leather and pepper flavors that are carried into the finish by tight, grippy tannins.
Slight reduction still obstructs this wine's nose. The palate, however, is both zingy and rich—spiked with citrus and rounded with ripe, mellow apple fruit. There is verve and life at its core and tone to its medium body. The dry finish is appetizing.
This vibrant, savory and linear white offers alluring spring flower and mature orchard fruit scents. On the elegant—almost ethereal—palate, hints of ginger and citrus zest add depth to ripe pear and juicy peach. Fresh acidity brightens the creamy flavors, leaving a crisp finish.
From organically grown grapes, this firmly structured red wine is stalky while also rich with potential. It is young, dense with tannins as well as black-currant fruit. The wine will need to age, so drink from 2019.
This is a stylish wine, fruity with red currants and herbs. It has a delicious crisp character as well as a salty tang, maybe from the nearby sea. The aftertaste is bright, packed with fruit. The wine is ready to drink.
The wine comes from the western end of the Côtes de Provence, from vines at the foot of the massive Aurelien mountain. It is light colored, but has plenty of ripe red fruits that are crisp, bright and direct. This is a delicious, refreshing wine. Drink now.
This is the top wine from the Sainte Roseline estate. With a perfect salmon-pink color, the wine is ripe and full of red fruits that are softly integrated with the acidity. It is a food-style of wine, lit by spice and finished with a crisp aftertaste. Drink now.
Meat, compost and leather notes mark the entry of this Syrah blended with smaller amounts of Mourvèdre and Petite Sirah. Light black pepper and red fruit flavors are sustained by a soft, round texture and lingering finish.
With seven years in bottle, this Cabernet Sauvignon-led blend is what it is. The nose is stewy and raisiny, with baked berry notes. Like the nose, it feels raisiny and heavy. Flavors of raisin, fig and chocolate keep the theme going, while the finish is herbal and earthy in flavor, with heat.
There is an attractive herbaceous character to this wine, yet it also has a softer, ripe and broad creamy side. Acidity keeps it all fruity and fresh. This 50-50 organic blend is ready to drink. Winemaker/owner Jean Labérenne, an opera fan, attributes his Presto wine to Mozart's Don Giovanni.
Extremely deep and nearly impenetrable aromas of black cherry fruit mix with a bit of creosote and a tiny whiff of fresh raspberry on this nose of this wine from a relatively unexplored appellation in San Benito County. It's dense and heavy on the palate, with decent acidity and tannins, making for a pleasant dark sipper.
From grapes grown predominantly in Oak Knoll, and blended with Petit Verdot, Cabernet Franc and Merlot, this Cab offers a richness of oak and coffee on the nose before a juicy midpalate delivers red currant and red cherry. It finishes dry in pronounced tannins.
Shy on the nose, this wine has dry, sticky tannins that cling to a wall of high-toned red fruit, mostly plum, forming a medium weight on the palate. Softening out as it goes, it leaves black pepper on the finish.
Scratchy berry and cassis aromas are earthy but perfectly presentable. This feels full and chewy on the palate, with firm tannins. Flavors of plum and berry come with dried spice notes and raw oak, while the finish is spicy, dry and mildly herbal.
Snappy aromas of spring peas and fresh herbs come with punchy citrus scents. This is a full-volume, summertime wine that's in good shape. Loud citrus flavors, particularly grapefruit, turn chunky before falling off on the finish. Drink now.
Aromatic and forward, this is scented and flavored with macerated red plums and cherries. It remains tough and chewy, showing buttery lactic flavors that have not entirely integrated, with a bitter edge to the finish. More bottle age may help smooth it out.
Made as a young and fruity wine to drink now, this wine succeeds admirably. The lightest tannin gives the red fruit and spice an opportunity to shine, bursting with fruitiness and acidity at the end.
Candied lemon drop comes first to mind in terms of the wine's bouquet, which settles into more subtle orange blossom. Sublime and layered in characteristic apple and pear, it shows tartness on the abbreviated finish.
Young and lightly spicy, this brings crisp flavors of Asian pear to the forefront. It's a straightforward wine, with just a dash of white pepper adding an interesting flavor note.
Dusty cherry and red-plum aromas are simple and clean. A fresh, tight, normal feeling palate gets the job done, while flavors of cantaloupe, red plum and nectarine wrap up with pithy citrus notes and a hint of bitterness. Drink this year.
This is a majority Cabernet Sauvignon, with 20% Merlot. Accents of pencil shavings and cedar rise on the nose, along with a suggestion of jalapeño and bell pepper. From there, cherry and cranberry form a juicy midpalate, the wine finishing dry and chalky.
Smoke and dried herbs persist from nose to finish on this uniquely sweet-savory auslese. The palate is brisk and lemony, but shaded in tones of dust and stone that linger on the finish.
Blackberry and herbal aromas vie with raw oak and heat on the bouquet of this chunky, jammy, slightly sloppy feeling Monastrell. Dark plum, blackberry and baking spice flavors veer in the direction of clove, and overall this shows itself to be far more oak-based than pure.
Olive and leather aromas ride over herbal berry tones. This is fresh and medium in body, with salty, charred blackberry flavors. Salt and pepper flavors monopolize the finish.
This tart, lean wine is not welcoming, but earthy, lively aromas and sour-cherry and tart raspberry flavors give it personality. The tannins are severe and sharp, too. It tastes light in alcohol and high in acidity so there is no hurry to drink it. Some mellowness and maturity may develop by 2018.
Oak, ripe pear and caramel dance to the fore of this wine's bouquet, followed by thick, textural layers of lingering vanilla cream. The oak remains pronounced throughout the glass, giving the wine a sweetness on the finish.
Big, firm tannins frame this wine, blended with small amounts of Merlot, Cabernet Franc, Syrah, Petit Verdot and Malbec. Black olive, black pepper and tar provide a savory density and complexity, softened by earthy plum and black cherry.
This 100% Viognier from Cairanne is broad and rich, showing proper varietal notes of apricot and ginger. It seems a bit warm and soft on the finish.
This Rasteau-based estate has turned out a plummy, savory blend of Grenache, Syrah and Carignan aged solely in concrete. The plum fruit is pronounced, balanced by hints of asphalt and some dusty tannins on the finish.
Earthy, stalky, rubbery berry and plum aromas are solid but rustic. This has a tight, juicy, tomato-like feel and raw flavors of red plum and currant. A hold-steady finish with tomato and mild herbal notes closes this out.
This earthy wine is full of firm and dry tannins. It has a dense and dark character, very concentrated along with its red berry fruits and acidity. At five years, it still tastes young and certainly tannic, not moving very far.
This opens with aromas of scorched earth, cooked black-skinned fruit and a funky whiff of barnyard. The aromas carry over to the palate along with notes of prune, overripe black fruit and green sensations that recall powdered sage. It's on the rustic side, while raspy tannins lend it an astringent finish.
This feels good in a regular sense, with apple-driven acidity and leesy notes of vanilla. A standard, zesty, pithy palate offers briny, slightly bitter flavors of peach and pulpy citrus, while the finish feels citric and tastes briny.
Grapefruit flavor is the key to this attractive, fruity wine. Crisp and lightly herbaceous, it is fresh while also having a rounder background. Drink now, but better to wait until early 2016.
Aromas of latex, strawberry and raspberry Kool-Aid are fine but reticent. Choppy, citric and high in acidity, this has a tight mouthfeel to go with semitart flavors of pink grapefruit and tangerine. Citric acidity drives the finish, which is tangy and intense.
This soft and fruity wine has only the lightest of tannic structures. Black currants and stalky berries dominate along with bright acidity. It can be drunk now.
Fruity and big-boned, this opens well with pleasant plum and cherry flavors. It doesn't quite hold together, turning sour and leaving an off-taste in the finish.
The nose is a little subdued on this wine, offering leather, red fruits and dust. Pomegranate, plum and raspberry elements arise on the palate, with some roasted game and the faintest hint of chopped herbs.
This is already showing some signs of early maturity in both the darkening color and the soft, lightly oaky mouthfeel. Autumnal fruit flavors suggest overripe apples, augmented with a dash of baking spice. Drink up.
Smoky, oaky aromas and vibrant spicy fruit flavors make this wine stand out from the pack of simple, ripe wines. It is very full bodied, high in alcohol, moderately tannic and definitely oaky.
Delicate scents of white flower, flint and white stone fruit slowly emerge on this crisp white. The linear, refreshing palate offers unripe peach, citrus and mineral alongside vibrant acidity.
Delicate aromas recalling exotic fruit and citrus lead the way. The fresh, straightforward palate offers lime and peach while a white almond note signals the close.
Enticing aromas of pear, white flower, exotic fruit and a whiff of Mediterranean herb lift out of the glass. On the bright palate, a light mineral vein underscores green apple, pineapple and banana while fresh acidity adds zest.
Tangy and textured, this is a wine that needs food. A tannic edge from the Cabernet in the blend gives the wine a tight, bright, refreshing aftertaste.
There's a touch of reduction on the nose of this wine, which otherwise offers a nutty profile that's somewhat shut down. Oaky and smoky, it has a bit of minty chocolate on the thick, full-bodied palate.
Yes, this is a rosé of Merlot from high altitude vineyards in the south of France. It's medium in weight, offering hints of red berries, wild herbs and wet stones and a clean, refreshing finish. Drink now.
Intensely floral aromatics distinguish this pure varietal wine. Those body powder scents linger in a soft, lightly floral palate, along with flavors of citrus flesh and rind.
This is an elegantly subdued white, at an attractive price, from a part of the valley that does well growing this variety. A sweetness of pear and vanilla interweave across crisp acidity, without intrusion or confusion from oak.
This is a smooth, easy-drinking white, ready for the patio or picnic blanket, or to serve as an apéritif, that sings in bright acidity, a balanced body and an exuberance of lime and melon.
Fully 25% of the wine is Syrah, which adds color and helps to bolster the fruit. Red berries provide a light base for a wine with plenty of barrel flavors of toast and coffee grounds.
Tight and spicy, this offers a mix of red fruits, strong streaks of clove and licorice. There's an underlying taste of stem, and the acids leave a chalky aftertaste.
Seared yellow apple, lemon rinds and pressed white flowers show on the nose of this bottling from the pioneering winery, which was recently acquired by the Gallo family. The texture is quite steely with bountiful acidity, but the flavors are a little flat on the sip, where stone fruit and squeezed citrus show.
This wine has ripe red fruits, a touch of caramel and some spice. A definite mineral and tannic structure gives the wine a textured character. It needs food to show at its best.
Chewy and tannic, this has plenty of barrel flavors, but is light on the fruit. Coffee, caramel and toasty components are all here, seeming to smother any ripe fruit that might fill out the middle.
Straightforward and fresh, this opens with aromas of jasmine and exotic fruit. The round, juicy palate is reminiscent of citrus, pineapple and pear while a note of bitter almond adds interest.
An almost neutral nose leads to a palate of subtle spice. There is freshness and balance with a clean-cut finish and some lasting savory notes.
Made with a 50-50 blend of Grillo and Catarratto, this presents aromas of Spanish broom and ripe orchard fruit. The refreshing palate tastes of juicy lime, unripe pear and mineral alongside zesty acidity.
The nose doesn't give much away but the fresh, linear palate offers plenty of citrus zest, dried aromatic herb and tangy saline. It's made entirely with native grape Inzolia.
Yellow wild flower and white stone fruit aromas lead the nose while the enjoyable palate doles out white peach, juicy nectarine and a hint of sage. Tangy acidity brightens the ripe flavors while a note of honeydew melon backs up the finish.
Light and fruity, this is an attractive, rounded wine. With its bright acidity, touch of minerality and orange-peel flavor, it is open and ready to drink.
This wine has an earthy character, with some bitter flavors as well as more generous acidity and yellow fruits, The earthiness should blow off as it develops to give a ripe, richly fruity wine.
Brisk red-apple flavors govern nose and the crisp palate. A lemon backbone of freshness brightens everything. The finish is clean and appetizing.
A rather dull nose does not want to reveal much. The palate counters this with freshness and a rosehip tartness that has some bitter-edged redcurrant charm. This is fresh and easy and would also work as a chilled red.
A very smoky nose is reminsicent of mocha. This oaky spice is also very evident on the light, red-fruited body. There is a bitter edge to the soft tannins but also a warm finish.
Faint lemon freshness is all that emanates from the earthy nose and palate. This wine is fresh and clean, with notions of lemon and ripe, juicy pear that make an occasional appearance. Drink as soon as possible as a light apéritif.
Softly ripe notions of honeydew melon and red apples stir in the glass. The palate seems cushioned and rounded but still fresh. This is off dry and slips down very easily. Drink soon while aromas are at their peak.
Some appealing floral highlights rub against flavors of orange crush, cherry soda and toasted cracker. This young wine seems structured for early drinking.
Aromas recalling Spanish broom and orchard fruit come together on this one. The bright palate offers nectarine, pineapple and yellow apple alongside vibrant acidity while a hazelnut note closes the finish.
This vineyard, first planted in 1982, was recently acquired by Jason Lett. A steely, earthy core provides the spine, wrapped in tart red currant fruit. Firm and focused, it's a multi-dimensional effort that still shows well after being open for three full days. Berries, smoke, dark chocolate, a whiff of curry and a saline finish are all in play.
Trinity's first-ever reserve is a beauty; half the barrels were new French oak, half neutral. Well-defined with juicy, citrus-flavored acidity, the cherry/berry fruit runs deep and true, while the oak aging adds buttered toast and nut oil. It offers exceptional value for the price.
The 2011 Hunting Hill is an immediately seductive Chardonnay. Toasted nuts, grilled white peaches and hints of pineapple all come together on a sumptuous midpalate, then finish bright, citrusy and long.
The Carabella, Hyland and Thistle vineyards continue to be the fruit sources for this gorgeous wine that's tart and stylish. The well-blended flavors mix citrus, tea, mineral and toast, and the length is impressive. Drink through 2025.
Concentrated and full, this has serious structure, dense, dry spiciness as well as rich lychee and mango fruit flavors. The minerality brings out the chalk soil of the Zinnkoepflé vineyard, the highest in Alsace. It's a wine for aging, so don't drink before 2018.
Intensely perfumed, this rich wine has also kept a fresher side. It's very fruity at this stage, with mango and lychee as well as pear and quince. That youthful character will deepen and mature into something more complex, bringing out the rich texture. Drink from 2018.
Aromas of wild berry, crushed violet, leather, menthol and a whiff of lightly toasted oak waft from the glass. The savory but refined palate delivers juicy wild cherry, black raspberry, ground white pepper, licorice, sage and a mocha note alongside chewy tannins. It's structured but elegant, with a mineral-driven finish.
While maturing well, this wine still promises a considerable future. It is sweet and rich, honeyed almost while allowing room for a touch of dry spice and pepper. It's a ripe wine with depth of flavor and density. Drink from 2016.
There's a touch of forest floor funk on this wine, but the nose also shows lots of stewed black cherries, chemise and mint-chocolate chip. The palate is deep and rich but not overly ripe, with raspberry and elderberry fruit cut by herbal seasonings of oregano, thyme, marjoram and mint.
This is the granddaddy in the Emilio Moro portfolio, but the wine is so ripe and oaky it's syrupy-smelling. Maximum ripeness means it's a bit Port-like on the palate, with baked black-fruit flavors that finish soft and jammy. This brims with power, extraction and flavor but it's grasping for structure. Drink through 2019.
Delicate floral and stone fruit aromas build buoyantly on this dry, elegant Riesling. The palate is drenched with deep, ripe peach and apricot flavors, yet streaked with long, linear lines of mineral and acid. It's a thirst-quenching but remarkably structured wine at an approachable price.
Aromas of dark berry, wild flower, Mediterranean brush and dried herb lead the nose on this structured wine. The ripe, delicious palate boasts juicy red cherry, crushed raspberry, cinnamon and anise flavors that are framed in velvety tannins. It's balanced and elegant, with an energizing mineral finish. Drink through 2022.
Golden hay in color, this fragrant, vineyard-designated estate wine offers floral jasmine on the nose before delving into notes of minerality and savory herb. Substantial on the palate without becoming overbearing, it's both elegant and memorable.
A medley of pretty aromas, including blue flower, perfumed berry, carob and Mediterranean herb all mingle in the glass. On the smooth, almost creamy palate, savory notes of clove, orange zest, white pepper and licorice add depth to the juicy blackberry core, while polished tannins provide the framework.
Dark violet-red in color, this wine has aromas of black cherry, lavender and confectioner's sugar. Cool and bright notes play off each other, with flavors of ripe black cherry, anisette, cranberry and sage. Soft tannins lead to a finish that is long-lasting but doesn't overstay its welcome.
This demonstrates, as well as any other example, that exceptional wines were made in the often-maligned 2011 vintage. Cranberry, raspberry, cola and allspice elements are woven gracefully in a lovely wine that closes with just a faint, beguiling whiff of smoke.
Purple in color and minerally and deep on the nose, this modern-style Rioja deals aromas of wood smoke, blackberry, cassis and more. The palate is big and bulky, but balance is no issue. Toasty blackberry, chocolate and coffee flavors hold onto a toasty, blackened character on a flush, dynamic finish. Drink now through 2022.
Part of a rare library release, this 26-year-old bottling provides a dramatic showcase of how sweeter styles of Riesling transform with age. It's still aromatic of honey and marmalade, yet the on the palate, the sweetness is barely perceivable. It's ethereal in body, with just a gauzy lace of sugar sprinkled over layers of mineral and spice.
Four decades of experience shine on this Josh Jensen bottling, which mixes luxuriously ripe wild berries, raspberries and cola with the sharper spice of sweet clove and dried violet. It's bright with acidity, picking up licorice in the midpalate and finishing on a tart, slightly bitter note of crushed cranberry. This will sip well for a few years but is amazing now.
Complex and compelling in dark plum and dusty dark chocolate, this Cabernet has under 3% Petit Verdot and under 3% Cabernet Franc blended in, providing the wine with elegance and concentration. Soft on the palate, it suggests vanilla oak with subtlety, bringing all the components together on the lingering finish.
Aromas of blue flower, wild berry, a hint of leather and brimstone lead the nose on this full-bodied wine. The palate delivers black cherry, crushed raspberry, grilled herb, oak, mineral and a hint of vanilla alongside firm, polished tannins that need to unwind. Drink 2017–2022.
Pretty red fruit leads the nose on this blend of 50% Grenache, 35% Syrah and 15% Mourvèdre, along with brown spices, anise and chopped herbs. The forest flavors are strong, with pine sap and eucalyptus, as riper boysenberry fruit emerges with chopped oregano and thyme.
From four estate vineyards with an average vine age of 33 years, this sparkles in creamy texture and sophisticated, yummy flavors of tangerine, grapefruit and pear. Stony minerality plays on the palate throughout, buoying complex components of jasmine and a lingering, more concentrated finish of honey. With plenty of structure and stuffing, it'll only get better over time, through about 2018.
Flush on the nose, this huge, modern Rioja is loaded with cassis, blackberry and cola aromas. The palate is bold, tannic and flush, with fierceness playing off against lushness. Savory blackberry, hickory and controlled saltiness drive the flavor profile toward a roasted, spicy, blackened finish that's rugged and suggests a long life for this wine. Drink 2016–2024.
Dusty cherry, wild berry and minerally aromas comprise a compact, deep nose that's entirely inviting. Juicy, bold and bright on the palate, with sturdy tannins, this offers exotic notes of cumin and baking spices along with wild berry flavors. It's elegant, complete and thorough on the finish; drink through 2020.
Balanced and graceful, this barrel-fermented gem runs the gamut from apple to pear to peach, all framed with lively acids tasting of citrus and stone. It goes long and deep, with toast and spice beautifully proportioned.
Even the richest, spiciest wines from Rieflé-Landmann retain freshness. So this hugely spicy wine still has a crisp element that gives it a great lift. It's structured with some dryness at the end as a contrast to the more honeyed opening. Drink from 2018.
The stunning 2012 vintage prompted this Buellton winery to produce this excellent reserve bottling. The nose blends dark raspberry, roasted plums and wet slate with the umami-driven scents of roasting game and black pepper. It's soft and lush once sipped, definitely a power wine packed with smoked purple fruits, but with tart acidity keeping it balanced and not boozy.
This is an intensely rich wine, opulent although with a sense of texture and a drier core. It's a full bodied, generous wine, fruity and structured. As a contrast, a surprising streak of fresh acidity brings an apple character to the more tropical fruit flavors. The wine should age, so drink from 2017.
Initial whiffs of nuts and bruised apple blow away, revealing radiant aromas of marmalade and honey on this unctuous yet delicate wine. A shock of lemony acidity jolts the palate, but recovery comes quickly with plush peach and tangerine sweetness. The finish is silky smooth and endless.
This blend of 60% Malvasia and 40% Trebbiano boasts caramel, candied ginger and pine nut aromas. The concentrated, polished palate doles out candied apricot, maple syrup and toasted almond flavors, with a touch of carob.
Ripe black-fruit aromas are schisty and suggestive of burnt toast. An edgy fresh agile palate is a touch choppy, while flavors of peppery black fruits and desert herbs and brush finish crisp, focused and not too heavy. Drink through 2024.
Earthy notes of plum and berry include a touch of leafy herbs. This is crisp, elegant and slightly tomatoey in feel, with dry herbal plum and berry flavors that end fresh and savory. There's nothing over the top about this classic Rioja. Drink through 2024.
Crisp clean white-fruit aromas come with a hint of clover. This is mellow and mature on the palate, with nothing aggressive or edgy. Dry, peppery, yeasty flavors show little overt fruit, while this offers a hint of green melon on a dry complex finish.
Appealing modern-leaning aromas of root beer, berry fruits and vanilla settle with airing and turn more mellow and traditional for Rioja. Slightly plush on the palate, especially given 2013's cool nature, this is balanced despite showing raw tannins. Toasty blackened flavors of baked berry fruits, chocolate and licorice finish long, toasty and peppery. Drink through 2025–2028.
Dense ripe black-fruit aromas are moderately spicy. In the mouth, this blend of Syrah, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Sauvignon is stout and rugged, much like Griñon's other 2011s. Flavors of ripe blackberry and cassis finish with chewy tannins and an overriding sense of ripeness. Drink through 2023.
Ripe heady aromas of black cherry, licorice and fir tree are lightly herbal, foresty and on the money. This feels tight as a box of nails, with firm tannins. Black plum, black cherry, blackberry and peppery flavors finish toasty and dark. This has a lot of life left in it. Drink through 2024.
Lush berry and marzipan aromas are darkened up by toast and graphite notes. This is a major-league specimen from Bierzo with a full body and manageable tannins. Blackberry, baking spice, mocha and dark-roast-coffee flavors hold steady on the finish before hollowing out. Drink through 2024.
One of several vineyards owned by the Vauthier family of Château Ausone, this is a tense wine with great structure as well as delicious ripe fruits. It has spice, a smoky edge and the acidity that is so typical of the vintage. Drink this attractive while structured wine from 2023.
With 40% new wood aging, this is a polished wine. Along with its smooth texture and juicy black fruits, it has a core of dry smoky tannins. The 53% Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend gives a fine fruity, black-currant aftertaste. Drink from 2020.
With great acidity, this wine that comes from vines close to Château Pavie, is ripe with fine tannins and a generous structure. It is fruity with red-berry fruits and a crisp texture. The wine, with its tannins, will take time to develop. Drink from 2022.
Chopped mint, new leather, forest floor and spiced plum aromas take shape in the glass. The ripe, juicy palate doles out fleshy black cherry, raspberry jam, clove and licorice notes, supported by big, rounded tannins. It's already accessible and seriously delicious. Drink through 2022.
The nose is subdued at first but then opens up into ripe apple notes with the zesty spice of grapefruit rind. The palate is dry and concentrated and adds a riper notion of juicy yellow plum while a bright lemony citrus streak keeps everything taut and lively. This is joyful, subtle and fresh and finishes on a pure apple note.
This blend of 55% Syrah, 25% Grenache and 20% Mourvèdre has a dark and gamy nose, with smoked beef, chocolate, black cherry and cola aromas. The palate is well-structured and expertly balanced, offering familiar Rhône flavors like fennel, pepper spice and blackberry jam.
This all- Cabernet Franc bottling opens with cassis, mocha, graphite and bell pepper aromas. The concentrated palate delivers black currant, raspberry jam, clove and oak-derived spice flavors, with assertive but polished tannins. Drink through 2023.
This is as well-balanced an interpretation of Roussanne as they come in California—proudly plump but not flabby. Light gold in color, it offers caramelized banana, custard, beeswax and apple blossom aromas. A backbone of lemony acidity runs through the palate, buttressed with ripe melon, mango and more tropical fruit flavors.
A subtle note of caramel adds richness to the baked apple aromas on the nose. On the palate, hints of chamomile tisane add to the baked apple flavors. The body is taut and linear. Rounded hints of baked apple persist even on the dry, clean and fresh finish.
On the nose, there is a hint of apple freshness amidst the peachy honeysuckle notes. These aromas also dominate the off-dry sweetish palate. The sugar helps to lend lusciousness to the fruit notes while apple and citrus freshness brighten and enliven alongside a lovely bitter edge.
Wonderfully mellow and lifted flavors of ripe, aromatic apple rise from the glass. The same pure apple notes also play on the palate where they are pervaded by a zesty lifting freshness. This is precise and bone-dry, but the full expression of the tangy apple fruit gives this great richness and an clean finish.
This wine has gorgeous aromas of honeysuckle and anise that make it undeniably heady on the nose. What follows are full and creamy peach-like flavors, with a pleasing lushness and measured acidity.
The vineyard is in the heart of the Haut-Médoc, midway between Margaux and Saint-Julien. The wine is solid, dark and with plenty of firm tannins. At the same time, it has concentrated black fruits and a fine blend between black-currant acidity and ripe jammy fruitiness. Drink from 2020.
This is a finely perfumed wine. It has a strong sense of structure with its tight tannins. It also has lively crisp red fruits that give both acidity and richness to a wine that will develop well. Drink from 2025.
Bold fruits dominate this ripe wine. As an estate under the guidance of Hubert de Boüard of Château Angélus, it has made enormous progress. Big tannins are enveloped in the ripe fruit to give a wine that is sumptuous and rich. Drink from 2023.
A good dash of Petit Verdot in the blend has given this fine wine its extra structure. It is still firm and tight at this young stage although the black-currant fruitiness promises much. From vines west of Pauillac, it is impressively solid and dense. Drink from 2022.
Firm and structured, this is a dark still-young wine. With a strong tannic core, it is concentrated, the black fruits are firmly in the throes of the tannins. Give this impressively serious second wine of Haut-Brion time. Drink from 2022.
This is a finely perfumed wine with its dark tannins and juicy black-currant fruit. It has structure and a dense texture although this is filled with the bright acidity that gives the wine a lift. This will age well, so drink from 2021.
Pinot Gris really shines at Carabella, as this two-clone blend demonstrates. Ripe pear fruit, along with a touch of Poire Williams, carries through a lovely, persistent, textural finish.
Wild berry, new leather and thyme are some of the aromas you'll discover in this savory Brunello. The palate doles out juicy black cherry, ripe raspberry, white pepper and tobacco notes, while firm, polished tannins offer support. Drink 2018–2025.
A wine to remember for its spicy pepper scents and vibrantly fresh acidity, this is complex and layered, moderate in acidity yet amply juicy in blackberry and blueberry fruit. Hints of spice, sage and lavender linger impressively on the finish.
Caramelized black plum, teriyaki, pepper and graphite scents combine for a rich, nuanced and inviting nose on this bottling. There is beefy depth to the palate, suggesting roasted meat, hoisin sauce, plum, dried herbs and peppercorn, all unfolding in layers.
Bold tannins and firm acidity make this wine a bit stiff to enjoy now, but it should benefit from aging through 2020. Aromas are lightly earthy, while flavors reflect cranberry and tart cherry. The texture carries a tooth-coating layer of tannins.
Aromas of leafy underbrush, grilled porcini, scorched soil and steeped prune lead the nose. The robust, jammy palate offers dried black cherry, espresso, coconut, roasted coffee bean and a confectionary note alongside astringent tannins. Scorching alcohol dominates the close.
Aged partially in old oak barrels, there's a distinctly savory, spicy tone to pressed apple and pear aromas on this reserve Riesling. Light-bodied and off-dry in style, the palate boasts honeyed apple flavors cut by a zesty streak of lemon-lime acidity. Lifted floral tones lift the finish.
sweet-tart candy, vanilla, and pineapple scent this Traminer and Chardonnay blend. It's zesty in the mouth, tasting of grapefruit and lemon zest.
Made with 50% Sangiovese, 30% Merlot and 20% Cabernet Sauvignon, this has aromas of blue flower and red berry. The easy-drinking palate offers black cherry, black currant and ground pepper while mellow tannins offer soft support. Drink soon.
This is an attractive, fruity wine, produced in Meursault. It is fresh with lemon and tangy orange-zest flavors. A light tannic texture adds an edge to the fresh fruit.
Though this bottling saw no malolactic fermentation or oak, the aromas are well rounded, with smoked lemon and kiwi notes. The palate offers lemon curd and apple-sauce flavors, with hints of smokiness, even without the oak.
This salmon-colored rosé suggests aromas of powdered sugar, red raspberry and dried herbs. It is soft on the entry with a touch of sweetness and flavors of Red Delicious apple, Turkish delight and marzipan.
Scorched earth, menthol, cooking spice and mature plum aromas take shape in the glass. The forward palate offers dried black cherry, coffee and licorice alongside smooth, polished tannins. Drink soon to capture the remaining fruit flavor.
Charred-earth, espresso, French oak and menthol aromas unfold on this full-bodied red while a plum note lingers in the background. The subdued palate is rather evolved, showing raisin, toast, spirits and licorice but not much fruit richness. Assertive, close grained tannins provide the bracing framework.
This offers aromas of coffee bean, coconut and plum. The firm palate delivers espresso, oak-driven spice and a green note of sage accompanied by grainy tannins that leave an astringent, mouth-drying finish.
Densely concentrated, this delivers aromas and flavors of fig, raisin, mature black cherry, chocolate and dark cooking spice while a coffee note signals the close. Showing the heat of the vintage, it's already evolved so enjoy sooner rather than later.
Aromas of dark-skinned berry, blue flower and a whiff of chewing tobacco combine on this straightforward red. The bright, easygoing palate shows wild cherry, raspberry and a note of star anise alongside supple tannins. Drink soon.
The nose is rather closed but eventually reveals aromas of espresso, toasted oak, clove and a balsamic note. The tightly wound palate offers unripe cherry, star anise and a green note of powdered sage while firm, grainy tannins leave an astringent finish.
Plum, dark cooking spice and menthol aromas emerge in the glass. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, toast, licorice and espresso alongside assertive, grainy tannins that leave a rather raspy finish.
Here's a straightforward red that offers aromas of underbrush, scorched earth and mature black-skinned fruit. The simple palate offers crushed black cherry, coffee and a hint of anise alongside polished, not very persistent tannins.
Very herbal and green, this is an intensely grassy wine, with a catty character. It's crisp, fresh and ready to drink.
Glimpses of sunny yellow peach and apple peek through layers of heady spice, vanilla and toast in this brisk but oaky Chardonnay. It's polished but spry, revitalized by a spray of zesty acidity through the midpalate and finish. Drink now through 2020.
Ripe blackberry and cassis notes seem glazed with bluebery jam in this rippling but light-footed Lemberger. It doesn't exhibit the grape variety's characteristic staunchness of acidity and tannins, but a refreshing squirt of sour-cherry acidity brightens the midpalate. Drink now through 2018.
The soft, open character of Menetou-Salon is very apparent in this gentle, fruity wine. With fresh acidity and bright citrus and apricot flavors, it's a wine to savor young. Light perfumes add interest to this wine that is ready to drink.
Lean and yeasty, this light-fruited effort seems almost beer-like. The hoppy flavors are fresh and palate-cleansing, the flavors very lightly suggesting green apples and citrus.
Aromas of game, vanilla, anise and woodspice are out in front of plump red-fruit flavors backed by grainy, dry tannins. Drink now.
In this soft, ripe wine, rounded tropical fruits contrast with the crisp texture. It's fruity while also having a mineral character that suggests the potential for aging. Drink from late 2017.
A sniff of truffle introduces this light but interesting wine. It's still youthful and tight, with tart fruit conjuring up sour cherry pie. Another couple of years in the bottle would put the optimal drinking between 2018 and 2020.
The Hope Family Wines' blend of 50% Marsanne and 50% Viognier offers aromas of ripe melon, smoked lemon rinds, apple custard and roasted chicken on the nose. Creamy flavors of ripe apple and pear are cut with a clean space of lemony acidity in this rich white wine that could handle a variety of food.
Leesy aromas of vanilla and almond skins set up a vital palate with bold malic acid and a sense of lime. The flavor profile holds onto the nose's leesy essence while delivering nectarine notes in front of a finish with good acidity.
Aromas of lees and baked apple lead to lightly viscous feeling sweet fruit flavors that linger. It's a crowd pleaser.
A nose of raspberry, brambles and confectioner's sugar gives way to flavors of strawberry, peach, menthol and eucalyptus. A fairly stiff tannic structure and tart, slightly green notes keep this wine from fully coming together on the palate.
This is 100% Grenache from a vineyard planted in 1895, so genuinely old vines. That said, 2013 was a challenging vintage, and this wine shows the firmness that marks so many of the wines. It's taut, dusty and herbal, with drying tannins on the finish.
A pale orange-pink shade, this rosé shows watermelon, baked strawberries, orange cream and a touch of bubblegum on the welcoming nose. Once sipped, it's sleek and easy to drink, with rich red fruit cut by a tangy, almost sour orange zest.
This blend of Sauvignon Blanc, Sémillon and Muscadelle is fruity and lightly perfumed. It has a herbal character as well, along with bright acidity and a chalk and mineral texture. It is ready to drink, although it will be better from late 2016.
A hint of sweat in the nose blows away to reveal a solid core of cherry fruit, along with broad flavors of stem, coffee and earth. This wine is substantial, though that slightly funky character lingers into the finish.
Smoke and exotic spice notes intensify from nose to palate of this delicately framed medium-sweet wine. It's a savory, rather spicy wine, but a core of honey-laced peaches and pears shines brightly on the palate. Dazzling lemon-lime acidity extends a moderately long finish.
This offers aromas and flavors of toasted oak, espresso, coconut, vanilla and a confectionary note but it lacks fruit richness. Bracing tannins provide the framework.
This estate-grown effort is almost jet black, and scented with tar, smoke and black fruits. It's dense beyond dense, and completely shut down. Even after aeration, decanting, and hours of breathing time, it remained stubbornly closed. Brief hints of tobacco and earth, cassis and coffee suggest that with more bottle age, this one could really blossom.
Whiffs of pollen and saffron lend shades of nuance to this otherwise perky sun-kissed Kabinett. Sweet yellow peach and apricot flavors are honeyed and plush, but balance out nicely through a crisp, lime-tinged finish. Drink now.
Mature plum, underbrush, spice and mocha aromas lead the nose while the warm, forward palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry extract, licorice and a hint of nut. Drink soon to capture the remaining freshness and before the fruit dries up entirely.
A fresh and fruity wine that has a creamy texture and attractive acidity. It is full of lemon and crisp apple flavors with an intense juicy underlay that needs to calm down, so drink this crisp wine from mid-2016.
It might be a good idea to decant this to let the burnt-match aromas blow off. They tend to mask the ripe, round, fruit-driven style of the wine. Apart from that initial funk, it's a pleasant, fruity, quaffable white wine.
Inky aromas of blueberry and boysenberry are a bit collapsed and reduced. Tannic and grabby in the mouth, this tastes of leathery plum and salt. And that saltiness carries onto the finish, which tastes briny and shows tannic grip.
Hints of bramble and earth accent pressed apple and pear flavors in this dry crisply composed Riesling. It's zesty and tight but finishes with revitalizing refreshment.
Aromas of dried berry, plum, rose and underbrush lead the nose. The easygoing palate offers raisin, blackberry jam, walnut and black pepper. Enjoy through 2017.
This white is a mix of tropical pineapple, tangerine and marshmallow, offering a creamy, doughy and yeasty texture on the palate. Chalky, it is medium bodied with a hint of richness, finishing more steely than stuffy.
Aromas of mature plum, toasted oak, menthol and dried herb lead the nose. The firm palate offers blackberry jam, dried black cherry, Oriental spice and licorice alongside grainy tannins that leave an astringent, mouth-drying finish.
A positive bouquet of melon, white flowers and honey leads to a ripped acidic palate that generates tangy, almost sharp flavors of orange and gooseberry. A citrusy angular finish turns pithy and bitter as it dissipates. Drink now.
Darkly colored and densely concentrated this opens with aromas of dried plum, espresso and exotic spice. The evolved palate offers raisin, fig, licorice and ground pepper alongside fine-grained tannins. It's showing the heat of the vintage so drink soon before the fruit dries up completely.
Aromas of mature plum, espresso, coconut and toasted oak lead the nose. The firm palate offers fig, blackberry jam, licorice and roasted coffee bean alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. The fruit is starting to dry up so drink sooner rather than later.
Pleasant apple and woodspice aromas are basic and limited but good. This feels balanced, with friendly melon, banana and tropical-fruit flavors. Light oak and related vanilla flavors drive the finish on this easygoing Chardonnay.
A surprisingly fresh wine for an Alvarinho from the hot Alentejo. It shows crisp acidity, with lime and apricot flavors and a bright, crisp aftertaste.
Raspy cheesy fiery aromas of plum and raspberry are a bit harsh. This feels tannic and grabby, while inky berry fruit and resiny oak flavors finish hard and blocky with a mild note of schisty minerality.
Stony and mineral on the nose, this brut-style sparkling Riesling revitalizes the palate with a fine persistent perlage. Flavors of tart green apple, lemon and pear are zesty and spry. It's a straightforward but four-square sparkler at a value price.
Still with its firm tannins in place and with layers of wood aging flavors, this is obviously a young wine. It has a background of ripe berry fruits and acidity that will develop over the next two years. It is potentially rich and full. Drink from 2017.
This offers aromas of oak, coconut and roasted coffee bean that carry over to the palate along with a hint of dried black cherry and a confectionary note. It lacks the fruit richness needed to stand up to the oak while raspy tannins give it an astringent finish.
Attractive aromas of red berry, rose petal and a light note of cooking spice fill the glass. On the tightly wound palate, dried red cherry, sage and white pepper are offset by austere tannins that lead to a rather short, bracing finish.
This opens with aromas of scorched earth, leafy underbrush, mature blackberry and a whiff of espresso. The straightforward palate offers ripe black cherry, toast, anise and a hint of mint alongside fine-grained tannins.
This stainless bottling shows fresh-squeezed lemons, yellow melon and canned pear on the fresh, clean and not overly tropical nose. The palate is smooth and plush down the middle, but sharply tight on the edges, with flavors of pear, lime and apple that prove a bit sour and tart toward the finish.
There's a slightly tart funkiness of tar, dried violets, dried strawberries, marjoram and sour plums on the nose of this wine. The palate is also tart with elderberry, opening toward dark herbs in the midpalate, hanging on a very dense structure.
This wine from one of Anderson Valley's pioneers has a lighter-than-usual color and plenty of red cherry, raspberry and turned earth aromas. It offers low-level fruit flavors and good balance of acidity versus ripeness.
A grassy, herbal element is up front on the nose of this Amarone-style blend done in conjunction with Allegrini of the the Veneto (Italy). In the mouth, it's round as a ball, with syrupy richness. Ripe sticky berry and plum flavors finish chewy with residual stickiness.
Pie cherry and rhubarb notes make a bright impression on the nose, followed by tart flavors bundled in a mocha-tinged wrapper. The texture is almost syrupy on the midpalate, but turns dry and dusty on the finish. This is a bit disjointed at this stage, so perhaps it will improve with cellaring. Try after 2018.
Here's a savory, late-harvested Soave with a fragrance of Spanish broom, hay and chamomile. The round but fresh palate delivers lemon drop, honeydew melon, and white peach notes with a hint of mineral. It finishes on an almond note.
A little watery but elegant, this Pinot is dry and crisp, with a light, silky texture. The flavors veer towards sour cherry candy, cranberry and tart, winter persimmon. Ready to drink now.
This partner of the red Grilos is intense and fruity. It shows fresh acidity while also having ripe apricot, tangerine fruit and a lightly mineral texture. It is still young, so will be better drunk at the end of 2014.
A solid, firmly tannic wine, it has swathes of fruit that are showing richness. Spice, a warm texture and a fresh aftertaste make for a wine that is ready to drink, ripe and fruity.
From one parcel of vines, this Chablis is warm, ripe, full of yellow fruits and the softest texture. It's very fruity with tangy lemon zest acidity and a light, crisp aftertaste. Drink now, but it will be better at the end of 2014. Screwcap.
Hailing from a cool vintage, this Chardonnay smells oaky and resiny to an extreme. In the mouth, it's lifted by a beam of acid but still comes across woody. Flavors of sawdust, barrel resin, stone fruits and citrus finish with a good feel.
Made from Sangiovese, Cabernet Sauvignon and Zinfandel, this is one of Rock Wall's drier, lower-alcohol wines. It's high in acidity, with a silky mouthfeel. A little rustic, it shows cherry skin, tobacco and white pepper flavors.
With ripe blackberry, beef jerky and cassis flavors, wrapped into strong tannins, this is good to drink now with foods that want a dry, full-bodied and fruity red wine. It should hold in the bottle for a couple of years.
This dry Sauvignon Blanc is wonderfully adaptable to today's wide variety of foods. Bone dry and crisp in acidity, it has rich, varietal flavors of Meyer lemon, lime, pink grapefruit and blood orange.
Good price for a Napa Merlot this rich. It's a soft, fleshy wine, with silky tannins and red cherry pie, licorice, bacon, black pepper and sandalwood flavors. Drink now with beef.
Pretty fragrances of white spring flowers and pears lead to a lively palate that offers white peach and green apple alongside bright acidity. It finishes clean and crisp.
It's dry, silky and crisp, with pleasant sour cherry candy, pomegranate and rhubarb flavors. Drink now, although you do want to decant it for an hour or two.
It's absolutely dry, with hard tannins, brisk acids and berry fruit that has an undertow of dried herbs. There's some heat from the alcohol. It's the kind of wine Nonno used to bring up from the cellar to drink with pasta and marinara sauce.
Aromas of beeswax, lychee and fragrant white flowers take center stage in this wine. The juicy palate offers ripe Bartlett pear and lemon drop alongside fresh acidity.
With blackberry, blueberry, currant and tobacco flavors that finish dry and smoothly tannic, this is a sound Cabernet for drinking now. For the quality and price, this is an attractive selection for entertaining.
This straightforward, medium-bodied Pinot Grigio opens with floral aromas and a whiff of tropical fruit. The round palate offers juicy Bartlett pear and green apple alongside fresh acidity.
Floral aromas recall jasmine and other spring flowers along with a whiff of graphite. The linear palate offers yellow peach, golden apples, citrus and a mineral note. White almond marks the finish.
Smoky and dark, in both aroma and flavor, this hits quickly with flavors of black cherry, chocolate and espresso. The finish is tight and quick.
This refined, vibrant Pinot Bianco opens with floral aromas and apple scents. The juicy yellow apple carries over to the palate along with a refreshing citrus note and crisp acidity that gives a clean, quenching close.
Intensely perfumed with notes of white flowers, fresh herbs and citrus rind, this off-dry Riesling is exuberantly floral and fruity from nose to finish. Juicy and ripe, with mango and guava flavors, it bristles with power and energy on the palate.
This is a cool wine from hill vineyards, one that has a strongly mineral, steel texture as well as good fruit. Apples and lime come across strongly over the tangy orange peel texture. With a rounded texture and plenty of acidity, it is ready to drink.
Subtle aromas include fresh hay, exotic fruit and apples. The linear palate isn't very expressive but it reveals raw yellow peach, pineapple, light oak and a hint of mineral teamed with racy acidity.
This low-alcohol wine is beginning to pick up bottle age. The orange and mango flavors are quickly drying out, turning toward cashew nut and dried apricot notes. The acidity is mouthwatering.
Pungent in classic varietal aromas, this is a floral, slightly off-dry, zingy wine with a touch of honeyed vanilla on the otherwise spicy finish. It'll pair well with spicy fare.
With attractive nutty aromas and ripe fruits, this wine treads the line between wood aging and fruit. It is rich, with touches of spirit while keeping a hint of red fruits and tannins. Spice and sweet toffee at the end add extra interest.
Aromas of green apples, peach and citrus carry over to palate. The juicy flavors are accompanied by lively acidity that makes this wine very food friendly.
A full-bodied white, it leads with aromas of jasmine, honeysuckle and stone fruit. The linear palate offers ripe golden apple, white peach and a mineral note alongside fresh acidity. Bitter almond marks the finish.
A blend of 80% Chardonnay and 20% Pinot Bianco, this has sensations of yellow apples, beeswax, citrus and mineral. It's simple but well made and would work well with lightly seasoned fish or pasta dishes topped with vegetable sauces.
This Cabernet shows its Spring Mountain terroir in the big-time tannins and concentration of black currant fruit. It's almost a wine-reduction sauce, but there's a loss of weight on the midpalate that suggests this isn't a wine to cellar, but to enjoy now.
Berry, plum and dusty earth aromas control the nose on this full-flavored wine. In the mouth, this offers weight but good framing and edging. Flavors of ripe red fruits fall into the tutti-frutti category, while creamy oak and spice notes spill onto a medium-long finish.
The yellow grapefruit, tropical fruit and nectarine flavors are light in concentration and are marked by gentle yet enriching acids. It finishes clean but short.
It displays a very pretty pink color, but that's the showiest side of a rather reserved wine. The nose smells slightly of rosebush and the palate is a bit watery, with some stone fruit and noticeable tension.
Heavy oak scents create a popcorn nose that leads to flabby flavors of peach and melon. The wine is woody and simple.
Stalky, briary raspberry aromas set up a tannic palate with more burnt bitterness than bright fruit flavors. Tart plum and red currant notes are leafy and peppery, with heat and burn.
This wine is fresh, with plenty of acidity. It also has delicious raspberry fruits, the ripeness well integrated into the wine. For immediate drinking.
This wine is aging out quickly and will not meet reserve-level expectations for most consumers. The fruit tastes a little cooked and the tannins have a strong stemmy character. Drink up.
Round and ripe, with an earthy character, this is a simple, fruity wine. Attractive apple and grapefruit flavors have been hit by a barnyard element that leaves a bitter taste in the mouth.
This is a spicy wine, soft and open. Its tannins and red berry fruits have a diffuse character that takes away the focus of the wine. It will age quickly.
Aromas of black plums, medicinal sour cherries and toasted nuts seem sweet and oxidative—like a fortified wine. With that in mind, this is a table wine, and it tastes unexpectedly dry. Mild tannins and yielding acids encase the dominant sour-cherry flavor.
Fleshy and bright, this has tight-lipped flavors of buttered popcorn, spring flowers and white apricots. Fresh and easygoing.
This wine has a strange juicy character, reminiscent of tomato juice. The tannins under the odd fruitiness are firm, with a bitter edge.
A mix of toast and mint aromas lead to a wine that has a split personality between herbal flavors and spicy toast. It doesn't work, its fruit forgotten in the middle.
This wine is so soft, gently fruity and easy to drink, but without much character or freshness. It's a gentle ramble that takes no effort.
A bold aroma of warm salted butter melds with notes of undergrowth, dark cherry and raspberry. Malleable at first, the palate becomes jolted by elevated acids, making the wine feel edgy on the finish.
Unforthcoming on the nose, it offers mild aromas of red fruits and flowers. Soft and fluid in feel, the palate is imbued with flavors of raspberries and dried herbs. It finishes with a loose, open-knit texture.
A layer of toast accompanies the principal aromas of white apricot and papaya. It feels slack and cushiony, with ripe tropical flavors.
Here's a fruity wine that's full of juicy black-currant aromas and flavors. The tannins gives the wine a strongly earthy character on the finish.
A heavily charred nose loaded with burnt oak dominates any fruity scents. In terms of flavors and feel, it's more of the same: roasted, burnt oak that's like licking a barrel or hickory branch. This is a one-dimensional oak bomb.
Having fermented on its skins, this wine is bolstered by delicate tannic traction, giving some foothold to the subtle white-apricot flavor. Lax acids give it an open-textured core.
Lithe and slick, this has broad apple flavors and loose acids.
A touch of sulfur spoils this wine, subduing the citrus fruit and the mineral texture. This should blow off, so wait and drink in 2015.
Date and tar notes come nuanced with a funky, sweat-like aroma. The palate feels lax on attack, and it tastes a bit thin on flavor. Firm, upper-lip-grabbing tannins mark the finish.
Berry aromas come in front of a sharp, plummy palate. This tastes herbal, spicy and woody, with dry berry flavors that turn tangy, edgy and oaky on the finish.
A hard, too-toasty wine that is completely dominated by smoky wood flavors. Whatever fruit is there is swamped, only a juicy hint through the wine's weight.
Soft and soapy, this is a simple wine without much character. It's a light, slightly sweet wine to be drunk this year. Screwcap.
Nutty and pomaceous on the nose, this blend of Riesling, Grenache Blanc and Gewürztraminer has a slightly sweet, slinky palate that makes it easy to imbibe.
This shows weedy, herbal aromas, a blocky mouthfeel and leafy, woody red-fruit flavors that taste of faux butter. Dry, peppery, herbal and brawny on the finish.
This leads with harsh, stunted aromas of earthy berry fruits and rubber. The palate is equally stunted and rough in feel, while tarry, gritty berry flavors finish drawing.
The nose on this blend of Merlot, Syrah, Cabernet Franc and Cabernet Sauvignon is a bit tight, with subtle notes of cocoa powder, raspberry and angel food cake. On the palate, fine tannins give structure, but the flavors taste equally muted.
A dessert wine based on 100% Chambourcin, this sports warm flavors of brandied blackberries and pastry spices that also mark the palate, which comes with dusty tannins and a truncated finish.
This is a pale colored wine, almost white. With its soft acidity, touch of pepper and bright red-berry fruits, it is exuberant, delicious and immediately ready to drink. The aftertaste gives the wine a further burst of acidity and crispness.
An amber-peach color and slight cloudiness signal that this dry wine is atypical. Its aromas are buttery and earthy, its flavors are savory and substantial (think melon and prosciutto), and the texture is unusually creamy, giving it a long, lingering finish. With great, supportive acidity and a touch of tannic grip, it's not a simple apéritif, calling instead for bold tapas or charcuterie.
Fresh, ripe, luscious black cherry notes abound on the nose and palate of this wine. It's medium bodied, round and smooth, with ample freshness to counter its exuberant fruit. Frehsness and a slight tannic grip make for a lip-smacking finish.
Dusty berry, resin and bell-pepper aromas suggest a marginally ripe wine with plenty of oak. A raw punchy choppy mouth feel and woody spicy plum and berry flavors are good but not very deep or evolved. A finish with hard tannins is par for the course.
Streaks of honey and bee pollen extend from nose to finish in this deft off-dry Riesling. Tart tangerine and grapefruit flavors are vital and crisp, but also spicy, earthy and a bit rustic. The finish is long and intensely citrusy.
I continue to be impressed by how well even entry-level 2015 Sauvignons are developing. This one is understated and grapefruity, with hints of pea shoots and a silky feel. Drink now.
From an interior subregion of Hawke's Bay, this shows classic oak-aged Pinot aromas of cherries, brown sugar and baking spices. It's medium in weight, with a suede-like texture and a savory, mocha-tinged finish. This is already showing a hint of bricking at the rim, so drink it over the next few years.
This elegant nectarine-scented Riesling is a notable solo project by Hazlitt winemaker Michael Reidy. It's deft on the palate, but offers plenty of ripe quince and tangerine flavors accentuated by zesty lime acidity. It finishes moderately long.
This wine's spiced plum, underbrush and French oak aromas waft out of the glass. The linear, ethereal palate offers prune, dried cherry and star anise flavors, set against austere, fine-grained tannins and bright acidity. It closes on an espresso note.
Immaculate freshness abounds in this zesty Chardonnay. While supple and quite creamy on the palate, pristine lemon and pear flavors and a vibrant backdrop of lemony acidity invigorate. Elegantly meshed vanilla and spice tones linger on the finish.
Light aromas of toast, melon and butter lead to sleek stone and tropical fruit flavors that persist on the finish.
Warm butter, apple and saffron-chamomile aromas show on the nose of this bottling from winemaker-to-watch Colin Murphy. It's classic Chardonnay on the palate, with pan-seared apple and sea salt touches.
Subtle whiffs of vanilla cream, apples and pear are enticing on the nose of this full-bodied Chardonnay. The palate is fresh and citrusy in fruit expression but delightfully creamy in texture. A touch of creamed corn lingers on the finish.
This is a blend of Grenache and Cinsault from the organic vineyard of Château Gabriel. It is a lively, crisp wine with fine acidity and refreshing red-currant fruits. It is bone dry, packed with bright acidity as well as fruitiness. Drink now.
This is a blend of Syrah and Cinsault. That gives the wine structure as well as bright fruits. It is an elegant fruity wine with a creamy ripe texture along with red-currant and raspberry fruits. Drink the wine now.
Cedar, smoke and clove mark the nose of this medium- to full-bodied wine. It's oaky and muscular, but not to excess, showing ample cherry fruit and ripe tannins before an abbreviated finish.
This blend of 55% Frappato and 45% Nero d'Avola opens with red cherry, crushed strawberry, clove and white pepper aromas that carry over to bright, polished palate. It's ready and enjoyable, with silky tannins and fresh acidity.
This bottling from the 55-year-old winery is one of the most reliable and well-priced Chardonnays in California. Plump nectarine and cherimoya aromas meet honeysuckle on the nose. It's tightly wound on the palate, with a sizzle of acidity that opens into peach and pineapple flavors.
Dark and toasty, this wild yeast fermented wine spent 10 months in 10% new Oregon oak. Slightly roasted flavors combine coffee grounds, chunky cherry and cassis. It's a full-bodied full-flavored wine which favors power over finesse.
Orchard fruit and white spring flower aromas drift out of the glass. On the rounded palate, bitter almond accents ripe pear, yellow apple and white peach flavors.
Made by the vine guru of Ventura County, Bruce Freeman, this bottling from a stunning coastal site shows plump red currant, tangy red plum skin and wet slate mineral scents. There's an Earl Grey tea touch to the palate, with lavender floral notes, peppery spice, dark red fruit and a bright acidity that persists into the finish.
This feisty, fragrant blend unites the citrus zestiness of Riesling and the herbal savor of Grüner Veltliner. The palate is light and bright but gently spiced, with Grüner's toothsome texture. Fresh, easy-drinking and ideal for summer.
A solid effort, this medium- to full-bodied wine boasts attractive hints of cinnamon, ginger and clove, balanced by fresh apple and pineapple fruit.
This is gentle, supple Pinot Noir that's ready to drink. Subtle cola, herb and red-fruit shadings are varietally correct, picking up hints of cinnamon and then finishing tart and mouthwatering.
The vines of Saint-Tropez are often within sight of the sea in the hills above the famous resort. This single-estate wine from a property managed by the Saint-Tropez cooperative contrasts fresh fruit and acidity with a generous ripe texture. It is soft, fruity and ready to drink now.
Shy when first opened, this wine reveals grapefruit and pineapple scents with a little air. The medium-bodied palate has a tangy quality, offering juicy peach and citrus flavors, accompanied by fresh acidity.
Almost entirely whole cluster fermented, this reserve saw just 5% new oak; the rest was neutral. It's clean and sharp-edged, with tangy raspberry fruit. Put it away for a couple more years, and drink from 2020 on.
Merlot makes up just over half of this wine, with Cabernet Sauvignon (39%) playing second fiddle and Cabernet Franc and Malbec rounding it out. It's expressive, with aromas of fig, golden raisins, eucalyptus and red fruit, with the aromas seeming slightly dried out. The palate is fruit forward and textured, while still showing restraint and length.
This small appellation is an enclave in the middle of Côtes de Provence. Its style is very similar and this wine, named after the owner, is a structured blend of Syrah and Grenache. The wine from organic grapes has a pepper and spice edge over the crisp acidity of the red fruits. Drink now.
This Bandol, from an estate split between Bandol and Côtes de Provence, is full of rich fruit. Perfumed and textured, it is spicy, tangy with tangerines and full of red-berry fruits. The wine has a ripe floral aftertaste. Drink now.
The clay soil of the vineyard has produced a rich Riesling, full of ripe fruits that give a strongly perfumed, full-bodied character. It's textured and still young, but will age gracefully and quickly. Drink from 2015.
Deliciously fragrant and soft, this is a ripe wine with pure apple and pear fruits and fresh acidity. From biodynamically grown grapes, it's crisp, clean and bright. A touch of spice at the end adds extra interest.
Fruity in faint white peach, this dry and balanced Sauvignon Blanc carries enough Oakville heft to give texture and grip. It'll pair magnificently with fresh shellfish or red curries.
Light in oak and mid-weight all in all, this Chardonnay from a cooler sub-section of the Napa Valley is replete with baked apple veering into dried fruit character and a touch of vanilla.
This wine is substantial enough for rich fish dishes and other entrees. It smells and tastes like almonds and apricots and has a nicely viscous texture. Full-bodied, it is complex, sophisticated, dry and has a lingering finish.
Aromas suggest black plum, black berry, scorched earth, espresso and a hint of vanilla. The robust palate delivers crushed black cherry and black pepper alongside astringent, drying tannins.
This is a ripe, attractively fruity wine. With its red cherries, touch of spice and earthy, juicy character, it is all ready to drink, smooth and with a light touch of tannin.
Candied blackberry, creosote and hot tar aromas fuel the nose of this Petit Verdot, a grape increasingly getting solo time in Central Coast bottles. It's thick on the palate, with smoked tobacco, peppery spice and cigar-like tannins.
An ever-so-slight astringency greets the nose on this 60% Rousanne-40% Viognier blend, with buttered apple and burned lemon aromas most prevalent. Apple leads the very even, almost subdued palate, perfect to pair with fruit salad to kick off a summer picnic.
This ripe, wood-aged wine has full berry fruits and ripe tannins. The spicy wood is still prominent but is allowing the rich fruit flavors to come through. It's structured and still firm, a wine that's mineral in texture and firm at the end. Drink from 2017.
The Cabernet Franc in the blend gives an attractive perfumed character. Spice and pepper go with ripe black plum fruit flavors. It's dense and concentrated, the tannins prominent at this stage. Drink from 2017.
Considering the average reputation of the 2007 vintage, this is a very drinkable wine. It is maturing, with a developed color and mushroom flavors. The acidity and the soft structure both show a wine that's ready to drink.
A complex, ageworthy wine, this is powered by its tannins, its dark berry fruits and the layers of wood aging. It's rich and sweet, the fruit balancing the structure and given a fresh touch with black currant acidity. Drink from 2017.
Very perfumed and dense, this is a structured, aromatic wine, full of dark berry tones and fine acidity to balance. The dry texture and the solid tannins promise some medium-term aging, so drink after 2015.
Juicy pineapple, mango and citrus notes lend a tropical feel to this penetrating, yet light bodied, Pinot Gris. Off dry in style, it's dancingly light on its feet, with a revitalizing shower of acidity that lingers through the finish.
This orange-style wine has aromas of grilled pineapple on the nose. It's dark straw in color and has savory flavors of caramelized apple and pineapple upside down cake.
From a base of 51% Cabernet Sauvignon this robust red adds Petit Verdot, Merlot and Malbec to concoct a soft, smooth and juicy red wine that's brooding in personality. The tannins are tar-like and sizable.
Sweet aromas of white peach entice one into this lively wine, a profile that carries through to the delicate palate. A refreshing apéritif that finishes dry, the wine is light in alcohol and body.
It's a big wine in terms of an inky color and very firm tannins but it does not come across as overly full-bodied, and the alcohol level is moderate. Enough blackberry flavor and acidity come through to keep it balanced just this side of extreme. This should improve through 2018.
A lush texture marks this wine that has a handful of Merlot and Petit Verdot blended in. The bold flavors are classic cassis and black currant tones.
A mix of red and black fruits pervade on the nose, with hints of roasted coffee beans bringing nuance. Flavors of black plum and freshly ground espresso dominate the palate.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Malbec and Merlot, this is aged in French oak. Muted aromatically at first, it opens into toasty oak and black plum fruit that's restrained and quiet. Grippy tannins show up on the finish.
Pretty floral fragrances of red rose and blue flower mingle with whiffs of red berry and baking spices. The palate offers black cherry, black raspberry, vanilla, coffee bean and cinnamon alongside bracing tannins. It ends on a confectionary note.
Round, dark fruit aromas come with a pinch of grass. On the palate, this mountain-grown Syrah is enticing. Flavors of toast, raw oak, gravel and baked black fruits finish with spice and wood undertones. Drink through 2018.
Aromas highlight violet, iris, incense and espresso. The lively palate doles out sour cherry, mocha and coffee alongside smooth, rounded tannins.
This open, generous wine is great for drinking now. It has juicy black cherry and plum characteristics and a delicious line of fresh acidity. Its structure gives just the right amount of backbone to a wine that's full and fruity.
Lemony and toasty, this approachable wine is rich and balanced, its texture soft and the flavors long-lasting, highlighted by a taste of lemon meringue.
There is a satisfying blend of Merlot and Syrah with Aragonez and Touriga Nacional to give a fruity wine that also manages to retain a strongly tannic structure. It's ripe, full in red fruit tones and can be drunk early, but will be better after 2015.
This complex wine has a touch of sweetness allowing the fruit to be ready to drink sooner. At the same time, it has structure, strong minerality and a floral, fragrant character. Drink from 2015 or wait for the full effect until 2018.
This smooth, wood-aged blend of 80% Cabernet Sauvignon and 20% Syrah gives both spice and rich tannins. In the Provence warmth, they have blossomed together to give a wine that is ripe and full-bodied while keeping refreshing acidity at the end.
A pale copper color, this offers initial aromas of ripe peach, pineapple core and ripe strawberry, providing a lushly fruity impression on the nose. The palate offers subtle structure and ample acidity to carry the ripe fruit tones, with a subtle peppery spice that dances on the finish.
The Estate bottling, at least at the moment, is a light and delicate wine, with more than a hint of beetroot and stem. The cherry fruit is pleasant and a bit thin, but the wine has some complexity, which shows in the residual flavors of orange peel.
Thierry Hamelin has produced this wine specially for the Xavier Flouret range. It is lightly perfumed with white-flower aromas and has a mineral texture and delicious, refreshing citrus flavors. Full of tangy fruit and acidity at the end, it is a wine to drink now.
Generous flavors of red and black cherry, and a nice, firm coating of fine tannins make this full-bodied wine good and substantive. Those dark fruit flavors are fairly deep and concentrated, and linger on the finish.
Woody aromas of oak grain blend with scented candle wax and briny stone-fruit notes. This feels chunky yet high in malic acid. Salty flavors of popcorn and apple cider carry a strong barrel influence, while this finishes with resiny oak and briny white-fruit flavors.
An unusually deep color and black-cherry flavors help make this wine concentrated and full bodied. A thick layer of tannins puckers the mouth, but will help the wine pair with a roast or rich risotto. It's made from 76% Grenache and 24% Syrah.
This wine struts the full oak treatment. It smells like vanilla, toasted bread and cherry syrup, and tastes almost like cherry pie. It may be technically dry, but it seems sweet with all its baking spice and ripe fruit characters.
Dusty aromas are about it for the nose. This sweet rosé offers sugary flavors of strawberry and red licorice candy. Good acidity mellows out the residual sugar in this Bobal-based sparkler, and overall it's pretty good for something that's semisweet.
Quite a lot of fruit flavor is packed into this straightforward, dry and non-oaky wine. It should be versatile at the dinner table because of its direct flavors, rather reserved texture and good balance.
This easily affordable wine is a full-blown oaky version that has prominent toasted oak and wood smoke aromas that meld with butter, caramel and ripe pear flavors. It feels almost sweet and is full-bodied with mild acidity.
Rubber and asphalt aromas dominate the nose of this high-acid coastal Syrah that's about as shearing as they come (only 12% abv). Additional scents of olive and savory plum feed into a tight palate that lives on a hard beam of natural acidity. Flavors of tomato and citrus are tart and end with a raw, juicy finish.
Fruity and bright, this is a lightly textured wine. With lemon and pink-grapefruit flavors dominant and a pale color, it is the crispest possible interpretation of a rosé. Drink this attractive wine now.
A light straw color in the glass, this wine shows smoked-chicken, stone-fruit and pineapple aromas on the nose. It's delicate on the palate, with easy apple, oak and vanilla flavors.
This ruby red Merlot has aromas of cherry vanilla, black plum and black cherry and flavors of red plum and dried cherry. The finish is persistent with mouth drying tannins.
This Sauvignon Blanc has scents of lemon pith, honeydew and cantaloupe. It is soft on entry into the mouth with flavors of peach, apricot and lemon zest.
Scents and flavors suggest dried grain and cracker, along with black cherry fruit. At first, the wine flattens out in the midpalate, but ample breathing puts more fruit and flesh on its frame.
This offers pretty aromas that recall white spring flower, almond and acacia. The juicy, medium-bodied palate offers ripe pear, lemon peel, hazelnut and a hint of dried mint alongside fresh acidity.
This off-dry Riesling offers an abundance of juicy lemon and green apple refreshment. It's approachable and fresh with a lingering sweetness that's not at all cloying. The finish is brisk and clean.
Attractive white-pepper aromas and powerful dark-fruit flavors combine with firm tannins in this full-bodied wine. It is bold and a bit rustic, and should pair well with a juicy hamburger or rich lasagna.
Big, smoky fruit and a nicely honed structure combine well in this full-bodied wine with touches of red cherry and berry and toasted wood.
Refreshing and straightforward, this presents delicate aromas suggesting exotic fruit and a whiff of spring blossom. The bright palate offers banana, green apple, juicy citrus and a light mineral note alongside fresh acidity.
There's a healthy dose of oak cradling the fruit-forwardness of this wine, made entirely from estate vineyards within the Chalk Hill appellation near the winery. Anise and honeyed caramel vie for attention against a rich texture and lemony finish.
Bright and fruity, this is a light, mineral and citrus-flavored wine. Plenty of acidity gives freshness while also hinting at riper yellow fruits and apples. Drink from 2017.
A fresh, friendly and fruity apple scent on the nose is far more subdued on the fresh, clean palate. This is dry, lively and refreshing.
This is an attractive fruity wine with citrus fruits and a tangy, zesty texture. The lightest hint of wood gives the wine extra richness. It is already drinkable.
Earthy notes of pear peel promise texture and the very crisp, bright palate delivers, but with edges of bitterness. The finish is wonderfully brisk. This wine will do so much better with food.
Soft notes of apple and pear are the chief characteristics of this fresh wine. The palate is clean and seems a little warm with alcohol, but has pleasant, leesy texture. It finishes clean and fresh.
This blend of native grapes boasts an aromatic nose of fragrant white flower and yellow stone fruit. The crisp palate offers apricot, lemon zest and hint of nut alongside bright acidity.
Aromas of white flower, hazelnut and orchard fruit follow over to the savory palate along with mature pear, lime zest and smoke. A mineral note signals the finish.
A blend of equal parts Grillo, Chardonnay, Inzolia and Catarratto, this has delicate scents of spring wild flower and orchard fruit. The tangy palate offers nectarine, lemon, apple and mineral alongside bright acidity.
Dry and somewhat dull in dried herb and chalky tannins, this wine lacks fruit, instead taking on a tomato leaf edge.
Dusty, leesy aromas of lime and vanilla come with hints of peach pit and white flowers. This feels juicy, lean and scouring, while lemon is key on a one-note flavor profile. A long, minerally, citric finish leaves tang and clarity.
Apple, melon, saline and buttered popcorn aromas set up a lively palate with snappy acidity. Apple and melon flavors turn a bit stalky and bitter on the finish.
Oak, peach and nutty aromas ride on the nose. Dense, creamy and reasonably balanced on the palate, this chunky number offers full melon and peach flavors prior to a briny, long finish.
This is tart to the edge of sourness, so much so that flavors of lemon prevail. It might make a suitable wine to quaff with raw oysters, but as a varietal Pinot Blanc it doesn't offer much charm.
Boldly flavored and slightly sweet, this blend of mostly Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon smells jammy, tastes ripe and juicy and has a fairly smooth texture with a touch of tannin. The flavors resemble black berry and sweet red cherry, the body is full and the finish is fruity.
Ripe plums and plump Bing cherries gain complexity from chaparral scrub and roasted meats in the background. The palate is rounded with Mission figs and violets, enhanced by a sharp acidity and noticeable tannic grip.
Lightly sparkling, this is a crisp, almost dry wine that offers fresh sliced apples and citrus flavors. Made from the Louriero grape which is widely planted in the Lima valley, this is a fruity sip for the summer.
Aromas of new wood, coconut and roasted coffee beans lead the nose of this blend of Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc. The bracing palate offers oak extract, prune, pomegranate, powdered sage and espresso alongside assertive, astringent tannins that dry out the finish. It lacks the fruit richness needed to stand up to the oak.
Soft, low-intensity aromas of raisin, marzipan and cedar announce a wine that's not in the best of shape. This feels jammy and lacking in foundation. Flavors of loamy berry, prune and raisin finish with a note of licorice.
A tad watery on the palate at first, this grows into cut grass, green apples, steely minerality and a touch of nectarine flesh. It's pleasant if not particularly special on the palate, with apples, pears and kiwi flesh.
Almond skin, green banana and pool water aromas precede a spritzy, citric, acidic palate. Flavors of white grapefruit, melon and apple finish zesty and briny, with a citric aftertaste similar to a gin & tonic.
Mild citrus aromas of grapefruit are offset by bready, leesy, yeasty scents. This has a citric mouthfeel with the suggestion of lime. Flavors of orange peel and gooseberry finish briny, with a puply feel.
The stainless-steel style reveals lots of green-leaning fruit on this wine: green pear, green banana and kiwi, altogether quite tropical. Similarly, the palate shows lime pith, apple blossoms and apple soda, moving toward a sour and bitter sensation as well.
Cut grass and cat pee aromas arise off of this appellation blend, with squeezed lime zest and dust also present on the nose. It's a textbook version of the grape, with more citrus peels and grassy elements on the palate, alit across a nicely weighted body.
Some high-toned volatile aromas highlight this wine. People sensitive to this might find that the pungency takes away from the simple, fruity charm. Drink it chilled for best results.
This smells like crisp green apples, tastes just a bit richer than it smells, has medium body and a touch of crisp acidity. The strong points are the tangy mouthfeel, fruity aromas and overall freshness.
Clear and light in color and texture, this offers an inviting floral and citrus bouquet, while the palate flirts with Asian five-spice and black cherry. While the fruit is compelling, the structure is undefined and the finish a tad flat.
Spanish producer Vicente Gandia has made a foray into Portugal with this ripely fruity and soft wine. It is fresh, herbal and spicy with attractive red berry fruits. It's been made to be drunk young and it's ready now.
This Bordeaux-style wine is ripe and rich, balance between dusty tannins and stalky red fruits. Acidity and an attractive generous texture give it shape. It is ready to drink.
Stalky, oily aromas are almondy and low on fruit. This shows weight and snappy acidity along with peach, apricot and persimmon flavors. Fleshy and mostly fresh, this seems to have suffered a bit in the cold, rainy, frost-ridden conditions of 2013.
A robust structure of tannin and oak in this fuller-bodied wine masks the finer components of black cherry and blackberry fruit that lurk underneath layers of tobacco and cigar box.
Leather aromas with floral hints and medicinal plum feed into a clampy palate, driven by tomato acidity. Medicinal cherry and red-plum flavors finish lean, herbal and a bit green.
This has a barrel-aged style, with a buttery and possibly oaky note in the aroma and a smooth texture. Mostly mellow pear and ripe apple flavors are spiced with a bit of vanilla and nutmeg. Medium bodied, it stays crisp through the finish.
Tight aromas of cranberry and red plum turn cheesy and like saline when allowed to air out. This is wide in feel but hollow in the center, with flavors of buttered oak and generic red fruits. Fresh in feel but medicinal tasting on the finish.
A round, cidery, gaseous nose includes sulfuric notes and yeasty, bready accents. This runs soft on bubbles and feels a lot like Sprite or 7-Up. Lemon-lime core flavors are monotone, while grassy green-apple flavors take over on the finish.
A relatively pale color and rather delicate plum and red cherry aromas suggest a light, elegant wine, but these are followed by richer flavors and a very tannic texture that dries the teeth like strong tea. It's made from 50% Mourvèdre, 40% Grenache and 10% Petite Sirah.
Hot pink in color, the palate is open and mild, but unstructured. Simple raspberry and plum flavors finish alert but with a basic finish of red and citrus fruits.
This pert, dry red has a nose of cinnamon, clove and red berries while the palate offers dried cherry, plum and pepper. A good everyday red to pair with grilled meats and cheeses.
Metallic, stalky aromas open this big but shallow Pinot. Candied plum and raspberry flavors are herbal and heavy. On the finish, stalky berry fruit, herbal hints and animal notes are part of the package.
Named after the famed vineyard's south-facing slopes, this vintage is expertly crafted, with aromas of ripe red cherry, sandalwood, black pepper, graphite, purple flowers and damp pine needles. It's complex, with dark red fruit and tickling cardamom spice set against fine-grained tannins. Quite precise and tight now, the violet and rose petal elements will expand beautifully with time, so drink 2019–2025.
Initial whiffs of nuts and bruised apple blow away, revealing radiant aromas of marmalade and honey on this unctuous yet delicate wine. A shock of lemony acidity jolts the palate, but recovery comes quickly with plush peach and tangerine sweetness. The finish is silky smooth and endless.
This voluptuously textured wine balances a dry, elegant palate with plush peach and preserved quince flavors. Silken and supple, it clings lovingly on the palate, but finishes bold with a steely, mineral touch.
This is a moderately rich Chardonnay, loaded with hints of pineapples, white peaches and roasted cashews. It's round in the mouth, delivering ample weight and complexity, yet finishes long, with fresh, citrusy acids. Drink now–2016.
Dark golden-yellow, this opens with inviting notes of toasted caramel. It remains bright in citrus on the palate, getting riper and steamier as it goes, developing deeper, richer flavors of preserved lemon and baked pear. From the winery's estate, this is a small-production wine well worth seeking.
Aromas recall ripe berry and blue flower with a balsamic note. The structured but seemingly weightless palate delivers layers of ripe raspberry, juicy dark cherry, clove and licorice alongside firm, fine-grained tannins. An intense mineral note signals the close. Drink 2017–2027.
Whiffs of forest floor and violets lend complexity to this fresh, perfumed wine. Cranberry and tart red-cherry flavors are bracing and tight but yield slowly into a supple, velvet finish. It's subtle and elegant, but also deliciously juicy in character.
Just one barrel was made of this reserve. At first the new oak shines through, then as it opens out the wood becomes less noticeable and a complex array of spice, stem and iron filings comes into play. The fruit is light and textural, showing hints of sassafras and even a whiff of petrol.
Caramel aromas lead to a wine that is soft, ripe and rich. It has sweetness, a generous texture and ripe spicy fruits. Tantalizing hints of honey go with the smooth yellow fruits and opulent character. It's still young for a wine of this stature, so drink from 2017.
Licorice, dark berry, toast and orange-peel aromas take shape in the glass and carry over to the palate, along with grilled herb, mocha and cinnamon. Firm, polished tannins provide balance and support while a mineral vein drives the finish.
Made with native grapes Nerello Mascalese and Nocera, this bright wine delivers aromas of perfumed berry, blue flower and a whiff of cake spice. The sleek palate delivers wild cherry, crushed strawberry, clove, cinnamon, orange peel and thyme alongside firm, polished tannins. It finishes on a mineral note. Drink through 2018.
Saitone is a supremely historic vineyard, planted originally in 1895 in the thick of the Russian River Valley's Olivet Bench, a coveted spot these days for Pinot Noir. The wine offers supple, soft tannins around a juicy intensity of grenadine and berry crumble. The structured backbone of minerality is remarkable.
Slightly pink in color, this Pinot Noir-based sparkler brings appealing notes of orange blossom and pink lemonade, nearing but not quite reaching bubble-gum tropicality. It's riper than its sister Blanc de Blancs, but remains very high and tight, enlivening the mouth with acidity and sour plum flavors.
Santa Barbara-raised Steve Gerbac makes a winning white wine with aromas of scorched lemons, browned butter and vanilla, sliced down the middle with white rock minerality. Broad, oak-driven flavors at the tip of the palate quickly tighten into a line of lime zest acidity that lingers, with white pepper and chamomile spices emerging in the midpalate.
Foot trodden in traditional open granite lagars, this is an elegant wine. Ripe black plum jelly flavors are balanced by firm tannins and a fresher edge. It's a wine that will develop over a long time, although with its fruit it's almost ready to drink now. Ideally, though, keep it until 2025.
Delicate aromas of perfumed berry, underbrush, anise and Mediterranean herb come together in the glass. The palate offers wild cherry, raspberry, toasted oak and vanilla alongside tightly knit, fine-grained tannins. It ends on a licorice note. Drink 2016–2022.
An intense bouquet of blackberry, smoked meat, flint and violet paves the way for flavors of black currant, smoked meat, coffee bean and a hint of cranberry. Rich savory notes mingle with strong fruit flavors, all marked by a pleasingly persistent strain of tartness. Smooth, soft tannins prime the palate for the elegant finish.
The second vintage of this wine comes from a great Douro year. It gives structure, dark fruits and a serious tannic structure that has been rounded by wood aging. Spice, berries and mint flavors all contribute to this powerful, ageworthy wine. Drink from 2017.
Black currant, cherry, plum and floral aromas form a nose with freshness as well as power. Lively, layered and fruity on the palate, this single-vineyard Malbec is lightly herbal and toasty, with wild berry flavors leading the charge. A tight, firm finish with raspberry and red-currant flavors ensures that this will stand the test of time. Best 2016–2022.
This blend of 45% Grenache, 30% Mourvèdre and 25% Syrah from Bob and Lynn Tillman's Adelaida Road estate offers an intriguing, aromatic mix of sanguine blood elements alongside ripe black cherries and white pepper. Solid acidity and good tannins frame the palate, which delivers espresso, elderberry, licorice and forest-floor flavors.
This is both intense and rarified. The intensity shows in the deep garnet color, the concentrated berry fruit, and the depth of flavor. The acidity elevates it further, lending sharp details and further brightness.
The intense floral fragrance suggests dog rose, broom, violet and perfumed berry. The vibrant, linear palate offers red cherry-berry, cinnamon, white pepper, Mediterranean herb, licorice and orange zest alongside assertive but polished tannins and vibrant acidity. It's beautifully balanced, with a mineral-driven finish. Drink 2017–2025.
A steely minerality underscores the taut, tart berry fruit from this estate vineyard, located in the foothills of the Coastal Range in Oregon's McMinnville AVA. It remains implacably tight and acidic, almost as if it had just recently come out of the fermenting vat. Nonetheless the structure and gravitas suggests a wine that will age.
Rich and structured, this single-vineyard offering delivers sensations of ripe black cherry, crushed blackberry, black pepper, cinnamon and mocha. Polished tannins support the juicy flavors and give a smooth texture.
Full-bodied and fairly tannic, but showing ample depth of fruit, this Cabernet Sauvignon-Merlot-Cabernet Franc blend shows plenty of mocha and cedar, but also intense flavors of black cherry and cassis and a long, layered finish. Drink now–2023.
Crusty black-fruit aromas are minerally and charred, with blackberry and earthy notes lurking below deck. This is a tannic, wall-to-wall RDD that's pumping baked flavors of blackberry, chocolate, herbs and peppercorn. The finish is deep but not fierce. Drink this powerful wine through 2020.
Earthy whiffs of dust and pollen belie radiant flavors of mango and peach on the palate. It's a ripe, rather voluptuous beerenauslese, yet elegantly honed along a line of tart tangerine acidity. Complex and layered, it keeps the palate on its toes through a long, exciting ride.
Orange blossoms and lemon zest exhilarate in this dry, richly concentrated Riesling. It's medium bodied in style and filigreed in texture, filling the mouth with layers of stone fruit and citrus. Vibrant acidity shimmers on the finish.
Sourced from a so-called “mystery clone” that may have originally arrived in Charles Coury's suitcase back in 1964, this unique old-vine bottling offers exceptional details of dusty cocoa, baking spices, cola, minerals and iron filings. The brambly berry fruits are not at all overwhelmed, just balanced out with the structure for aging. Drink now through 2025.
A streak of grapefruit acidity lends a racy edge to sweet white-peach and Meyer-lemon flavors in this lip-smacking spätlese. It's delicately filigreed in texture, yet powerfully concentrated in fruit. Touches of mineral and herb add complexity to the lingering finish.
Roasted macadamia, toasted coconut and baked apple scents lead the nose of this wine from Santa Barbara County's first commercial vineyard. The palate is broad to start, with lemon curd, pear and almond flavors; but it centers on a flinty mineral character as it finishes.
Sultry cooked red plum and mulberry fruit meld with rust, mace, sarsaparilla and a touch of wood smoke on the nose of this bottling from the oldest commercial vineyard in Santa Barbara County. Smoked pork loin aromas meet with deep red fruit and the sweet tang of cherry skins on the sip.
Blue fruit character comes softly layered with exotic clove and cardamom scents in this elegantly light and vibrant wine. Given less time in oak than some of the producer's single-vineyard wines, it's focused and varietal, with a gravelly, complex finish.
This bottling comes off a select corner of the Talley family ranch and is quite shy on the nose at first, reluctantly offering beet, cranberry, and cooked strawberry aromas, with the slightest touch of caramelization and loam. The flavors tend toward bramble, with wild thyme, white pepper and oregano, starting off simple but growing persistent and beautiful as the wine opens.
Tasted blind among wines priced three times higher, this Pinot more than held its own. Vibrant, well-balanced and medium-bodied, it blends generous fruit flavors, moderate tannins and restrained oak spice. It's elegant, mouthwatering and subtle, lingering long into the finish.
Truffle, chopped mint, woodland berry and eucalyptus aromas unfold in the glass. Bright and juicy, the palate evokes succulent red berries, star anise, clove and tobacco, set against a backdrop of firm, polished tannins. Fresh acidity lends balance. Drink 2019–2027.
This reserve begins as a vineyard-block selection, and spends nine months in 100% French oak. It's bright and brambly, melding citrus skins and oils, fresh raspberries and cherries, and a touch of chocolate. There's a hint of dustiness as well, and it's drinking quite well already: no need to wait.
From a south-facing hillside site on the edge of the Petaluma Gap at Dutton Ranch Cherry Ridge Vineyard, this fruity and complex wine shows white pepper and earthy notes, taking time to open in the glass. Varietal in its pepper, leather and violet aromas, it's sleek and tart—a cool-climate rendition of the grape.
Toast, mocha, spiced plum and pipe tobacco aromas come together in this savory red. The palate offers juicy raspberry, wild cherry, star anise and vanilla notes with firm, refined tannins. Drink 2018–2026.
Beautifully structured for aging, this wine is deep and dark in color, with rosemary and tobacco aromas and ripe black cherry, black olive and cranberry flavors. Firm tannins and good fruit acidity make it feel tangy and bright, while retaining all that flavor. Best after 2020.
With a touch of barrel reduction on the nose, this wine unfolds into layers of crisp, stony minerality and bold flavors of lemon and pear. Balanced in both ripeness and texture, its acidity carries it to a long, spicy finish.
This wine made from estate-grown, dry-farmed fruit has a large presence on the nose, offering earthy rose and lavender aromas. Velvety on the palate, it broods in tart cherry and rhubarb flavors, with allspice and toasted oak notes that accentuate its spice on the long finish.
Dark-skinned berry, new leather, and menthol aromas lead the nose, brightened by a floral tone. The palate delivers dried black cherry, crushed raspberry, clove and star anise flavors, made firm by framed tightly knit, rounded tannins. Drink 2020–2027.
Dijon clones go into this rich mouth coating wine. It pushes pastry flavors front and center—apple pie, pie crust and cinnamon—but it never goes too soft, and finishes with a well-modulated mix of barrel toast (30% new French oak) and underlying minerality.
Baking spices and vibrant cassis set up the nose of this Cabernet. Those same elements are apparent on the palate, where the wine is full-bodied and solidly built. Cinnamon and cocoa notes add a dusty feel to the lingering finish. Drink now–2025.
A full-bodied explosion of hearty ripe fruit is the story in this soft, straightforwardly approachable and enjoyable wine. It's blended with 15% Merlot and 10% Cabernet Franc and aged in oak, giving it smokiness and a length of spice that opens in the glass.
Full bodied, creamy and rich, this wine will undoubtedly please Torbreck fans and provide another piece of ammo for critics. Tasted blind, I wrote, “Torbreck-like nose of lifted spice and stewed berries.” There's a hint of mint as well. Mixed berries and brown sugar notes mingle easily on the palate, while a touch of dried fruit (not a positive) creeps in on the finish. Drink now–2025.
This is a rich jammy wine. Great black fruits and dark tannins are mixed with touches of chocolate and bitter coffee. It is dense, although with the acidity of the year it has a crispness that contrasts with the richness. Drink this ripe wine from 2026.
The great dominance of Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend has given this wine both a fine structure and crisp swathes of black-currant fruit. It is a firm wine at this stage, although the fine fruitiness will become an important part of the taste. The estate is named after one of Napoleon's generals who became King of Sweden. Drink from 2021.
This is a dense and tannic wine. It has plenty of the structure that is common to the Listrac appellation with a firm character when young; however, it also has swathes of ripe black fruits and acidity that will allow it to fill out very satisfactorily. Drink from 2020.
Produced by the team from classed growth Château Giscours, this is a successfully ripe wine with smoothly integrated tannins. Cushioned by the ripe fruit, the structure is concentrated and impressive. Drink this wine from 2022.
This is a small property under the same ownership as Château du Cartillon in the Haut-Médoc. The wine is ripe, juicy and with delicious blackberry fruits. It has a dark core of tannins ready to push the wine forward as it ages. It will certainly need time, so wait until 2021.
This 55% Cabernet Sauvignon and 45% Merlot blend comes from an estate just north of Saint-Estèphe. It reflects the structure and density of that appellation. Bold, ripe and fruity, it will age well. Drink from 2020.
Ripe tropical fruits along with intense sweet lemon give this wine its fine acidity and ripe character. It is pure, clear and clean with lively acidity and a tangy zingy aftertaste that also brings in some minerality. Drink from 2018.
This a finely perfumed wine with its 32% Cabernet Franc, unusual for this estate. It gives a wine with great structure and concentration as well as layers of ripe black fruits. The wine needs to age so drink from 2023.
The home chateau of the group of properties owned by the Guyon family, this estate has produced a solid very ageworthy wine. It has dark tannins and rich juicy black fruits. With its structure and bright berry and plum flavors, it will not be ready to drink before 2020.
This is a serious, complex wine from an estate that was created in the 1930s. Old vines and wood aging have give the wine concentration and richness. Black-plum skin and blackberry flavors, enhanced by a good proportion of Petit Verdot, dominate a wine that will age well. Drink from 2022.
This reserved and classically styled wine has subtle fig and marzipan aromas, is dry on the palate, with a bundle of tight fruit and spice flavors wound up in fresh acidity that emerge slowly with each sip and on the finish. It is a serious wine and a good candidate to age until 2018 or longer.
A totally luscious notion of tropical fruit on the nose is surprising: both pineapple and passion fruit appear. The palate is light and slender, fresh and precise, but the tropical richness persists. This is intriguing, delicious, dry and fun. The finish is whistle-clean.
A touch of fresh bay leaf, wet earth and musk rose combine to make a very enticing intriguing nose. The resolutely dry palate carries these lovely aromatics with zesty freshness and lovely zesty texture that is reminiscent of grapefruit peel. It is its abiding freshness that makes this stand out.
This opens with aromas of oak, toast, licorice, coconut and sugared plum. The taut palate offers dried cherry, star anise and a green note of powdered sage but not a lot of fruit richness. Raspy tannins leave a tongue-drying finish.
Fresh with apple and citrus, this is a perfumed, immediately attractive wine. It has bright acidity, a lightly mineral texture and a tangy, zesty aftertaste. It's young and will age although it is delicious now.
Made with 50% Sangiovese, 30% Merlot and 20% Cabernet Sauvignon, this straightforward red opens with aromas of fragrant blue flower and wild berry. The easy-drinking palate doles out juicy black cherry, black currant and a hint of white pepper framed in mellow tannins.
This sparkling wine has a smooth, creamy mousse and perfumed apple and pink-grapefruit fruitiness. Light minerality gives texture, enhanced by the bright, crisp acidity and aftertaste.
This wine is dry and smoky, with tannins that will allow it to age. The fruit, though, only hints at red berry fruits and should be more developed for a simple appellation wine such as this. Drink from 2017.
Grown on gravel terraces that rise up from the Loire, this wine is both structuredand fruity. Fresh juicy black currant flavors bring acidity along with them, leaving a light tannic structure at the end. Drink now.
Light straw in the glass, this wine is a nice example of the indigenous Turkish grape Narince. The bouquet yields soft notes of guava and white melon, while it is much bolder on the palate, offering flavors of grapefruit, carambola, and eucalyptus. The pleasing of interplay of tropical fruit and cool notes continues into a zesty finish with touches of mint.
Milk chocolate, blueberry and black currant combine around a soft core of subdued tannins and classical weavings of cedar and dried herb in this mountain-grown wine. It finishes in puckering leather.
Freshly ground black pepper and dark cherries scent this Hungarian Kékfrankos. It is medium bodied, presenting flavors of pomegranate and sour cherry with a slightly tart finish.
Inviting aromatics of nutmeg and Asian spice give way to a silky, savory and light-bodied version of the variety, with a backbone of sizable tannin.
This is 100% Grenache from a vineyard planted in 1895, so genuinely old vines. That said, 2013 was a challenging vintage, and this wine shows the firmness that marks so many of the wines. It's taut, dusty and herbal, with drying tannins on the finish.
A pale orange-pink shade, this rosé shows watermelon, baked strawberries, orange cream and a touch of bubblegum on the welcoming nose. Once sipped, it's sleek and easy to drink, with rich red fruit cut by a tangy, almost sour orange zest.
Piney sage and crisp sour cherry surround a bombastically brawny structure and outpouring of power in this 100% varietal wine. It should be enjoyed slowly and with plenty of food.
Juicy and ripe, yet briskly composed, this medium-bodied Pinot Noir boasts flavors of red cherry and strawberry preserves offset by crisp cranberry acidity. It's concentrated on the palate but finishes swiftly with just a feathery hint of tannins.
Intriguing in tobacco and a sense of the forest, especially pine, this soft, chewy, fuller wine finishes quickly in black pepper.
Plum, dark cooking spice and menthol aromas emerge in the glass. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, toast, licorice and espresso alongside assertive, grainy tannins that leave a rather raspy finish.
The nose is rather closed but eventually reveals aromas of espresso, toasted oak, clove and a balsamic note. The tightly wound palate offers unripe cherry, star anise and a green note of powdered sage while firm, grainy tannins leave an astringent finish.
Tobacco box and cedar notes lend savory nuances to this stately, but slightly subdued Cabernet Sauvignon. Delicate black plum and cherry flavors are crisp and cool, fringed by soft fine tannins. Drink now through 2018.
Dusty, gritty citrus aromas are softened by leesy notes and a vanilla scent. The palate is foamy and short on complexity. Flavors of orange, nectarine and white pepper turn slightly bitter, while citric acidity lends freshness to the finish.
Packed with fruit and crisp acidity, this is a bright, light and perfumed wine. Red-berry flavors are lifted by red currants and a light spice. Drink now for total freshness.
There's a seltzer quality to the nose of this wine, with aromas of pink-grapefruit spritz, apple and pear cider, and fresh baking soda. It's tight and grippy on the palate, with flavors of green-apple flesh and tangerine skin that linger into the finish.
Baked plum, roasted coffee bean, toast and a whiff of grilled herb lead the nose. The concentrated palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry jam and licorice alongside assertive tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish. The fruit is showing signs of drying out so drink sooner rather than later.
This closed, youthful wine is wrapped up in the ripeness and grippy nature of the vintage. It has a tropical edge to the fruit, a mix of pineapple and guava supported by juicy peach that finishes full bodied and lush on the palate.
Based in Humbligny, midway between Menetou-Salon and Sancerre, this producer has vines in both appellations. A delicate, perfumed wine, this enjoys a good balance between acidity and apple and white peach flavors. It's rounded, full in the mouth and ready to drink.
A light approach to Chablis, this brings out crisp fruitiness, attractive acidity, apple flavors and a touch of steeliness. With its creamy, ripe aftertaste, the wine is ready to drink.
From the Mâcon appellation that is dominated by the formidable rock of Solutré, this is a ripe, full-bodied wine. It offers juicy acidity, fresh sliced apple flavors and a touch of spice. The wine is ready, although it will be better from late 2016.
Black slate, vanilla and red cherries show on the nose of this widely available wine, which is nicely complex for such a large case load. The palate is medium in body but heartily spiced, with dark pomegranate and cherry-pie flavors hanging on a chalky tannic structure.
This is firm and tannic, reflecting the challenges of the vintage, yet it does show classic garrigue aromas and flavors of black olives and dark cherries. Drink it now with grilled meats, or hold it a year or two in the hopes of it softening a little.
This perfumed wine has a rustic edge that should blow away as the wine matures. For the fruit, it is red-berry time: bright, soft and lifted by gentle tannins and lively acidity. The wine will improve for a few more months, so drink from late 2017.
An herbal wine, this is full of gooseberry and grapefruit flavors. It's tangy, tight with a steely texture and a strong mineral streak. The wine is fresh, fruity and ready to drink.
This is gentle, supple Pinot Noir that's ready to drink. Subtle cola, herb and red-fruit shadings are varietally correct, picking up hints of cinnamon and then finishing tart and mouthwatering.
From an interior subregion of Hawke's Bay, this shows classic oak-aged Pinot aromas of cherries, brown sugar and baking spices. It's medium in weight, with a suede-like texture and a savory, mocha-tinged finish. This is already showing a hint of bricking at the rim, so drink it over the next few years.
The vines of Saint-Tropez are often within sight of the sea in the hills above the famous resort. This single-estate wine from a property managed by the Saint-Tropez cooperative contrasts fresh fruit and acidity with a generous ripe texture. It is soft, fruity and ready to drink now.
Shy when first opened, this wine reveals grapefruit and pineapple scents with a little air. The medium-bodied palate has a tangy quality, offering juicy peach and citrus flavors, accompanied by fresh acidity.
Almost entirely whole cluster fermented, this reserve saw just 5% new oak; the rest was neutral. It's clean and sharp-edged, with tangy raspberry fruit. Put it away for a couple more years, and drink from 2020 on.
Merlot makes up just over half of this wine, with Cabernet Sauvignon (39%) playing second fiddle and Cabernet Franc and Malbec rounding it out. It's expressive, with aromas of fig, golden raisins, eucalyptus and red fruit, with the aromas seeming slightly dried out. The palate is fruit forward and textured, while still showing restraint and length.
Aromas of berry fruits, barrel spice and desert herbs lead to a solid palate that's tight as a fist. This tastes dry, spicy and oaky, with peppery berry and plum notes. An oaky spicy finish offers just enough bold plum and berry fruit.
This 100% Nebbiolo opens with classic varietal aromas of dried rose petal, underbrush and balsam. The savory palate delivers red raspberry, sour cherry and baking spice flavors, with polished tannins and fresh acidity. Drink now–2021.
Attractive hints of celery leaf add complexity to this wine's melon and citrus flavors. It's medium bodied, with a long, mouthwatering finish.
Passion fruit and green onion aromas give a zesty impression even before tasting. On the palate, there's more passion fruit, underscored by underripe pineapple, a long, citrusy finish and a dry, slightly chalky texture.
Rich almost to the point of oiliness, this is a fuller-than-typical vintage for this wine. Honey adds a sense of sweetness to the ripe lychee flavors, but there's still sufficient peppery-gingery spice for balance. Drink now.
Name and reputation get you only so far, as this underwhelming offering from a poor vintage proves. Compact stewy aromas of baked berry fruits and asphalt are the appetizer. A main course of chunky jammy stewy berry and prune flavors finishes with a desiccated essence. Unico is known to age for decades, but not this vintage. Drink now for what it's worth.
From one of the old Provence estates, this is a concentrated herbal wine. It has plenty of spice as well as full red fruits and balanced acidity. This is a fine wine, packed with taste. Drink now.
This wine, named after a swarm of bees, comes from a small region in the center of the larger Côtes de Provence. From high-altitude vineyards in a state park, it is cool while keeping plenty of richness. The acidity and the red-currant fruits dominate this attractive, ready-to-drink wine.
This blend of 87% Grenache and 13% Syrah shows red apple, deep strawberry and yeast touches on the fresh and lively nose. It hits the palate with brilliant, tactile energy, delivering rounded red fruit and bubblegum flavors that make it a certain summertime crowd pleaser.
Tangy yellow grapefruit aromas meet broad Gala apple and almond scents in this bottling from veteran winemaker Norman Beko. The palate is light in texture but overflows with marshmallow, lemon and sea salt flavors.
Made entirely from Syrah, this offers earthy black-skinned fruit, tilled soil and leather aromas. The round, friendly palate delivers blackberry jam, black plum and white pepper flavors, alongside smooth tannins.
It is the 20% Gros Manseng in the blend that makes this wine. It gives it an extra dimension, a touch of honey and hints of apricots. It is an attractive contrast to the herbal character from the Colombard and Ugni Blanc. This a delicious wine, still young and ready to go from the end of 2017.
Dry and succulent, this brings tangy flavors of rhubarb and raspberry into focus. It's made for picnic foods—could anything be better with fried chicken? This is widely available and scores a bullseye if your target is a summer sipper.
Made from organically farmed grapes, this offers tropical and white stone fruit aromas. On the bright palate, a saline hint underscores yellow apple, Bartlett pear and citrus fruit. It finishes clean and crisp.
A difficult vintage across the state, 2015 was especially tough in remote and dry places like Mt. Harlan. Despite that hurdle, Josh Jensen pulled off a delicate winner with this bottling, which shows white peach, honeydew and Meyer lemon scents on the nose. The flavors are also light, with nectarine and Asian pear most prominent, all enwrapped in nervy tension.
Citrus blossom and orchard fruit aromas lead the way. On the round, medium-bodied palate, tangy acidity supports ripe yellow apple and pear flavors. A hint of citrus zest marks the close.
This wine is particularly fruity with red-currant and raspberry flavors right up front. Crisp and lively, it is bone dry and packed with acidity as well as the great fruitiness. Ready to drink now. The 12th-century estate has been in the same family since the early 19th century.
Backed by consultant Hubert de Boüard from Saint-Emilion, this is a crisp red-currant-flavored wine. It is light, tangy and with delicious acidity. With its bright lively textured aftertaste, the wine is made to go with food. Drink now.
Owned by Champagne producer Bruno Paillard, this wine is as crisp as a rosé Champagne. It is light and fruity with just a touch of mineral texture. The red-berry flavors lift and enhance the concentration of this attractive wine. Drink now.
Very alluring yellow apple and Bosc pear aromas are followed by an elegantly styled palate, with racy lemony acids on the finish. It shows a pleasing sense of purity and elegance. Pair it with food to see it at its best.
Yellow stone fruit, citrus and Mediterranean brush aromas float out of the glass. On the bright, tangy palate, mature apricot and nectarine flavors mingle with savory mineral notes and hints of chopped herb.
Barrel aromas are out front on this 100% varietal wine, with notes of wood spice, vanilla, pencil lead and baking spice followed by dark plum. The flavors are dense, dark and palate coating. The wood shows quite prominently on the palate as well but if you can get beyond it, there are good things happening.
Though a slightly riper style of rosé than is de rigeur today, this is a solid and lively wine, its ripe raspberry and red plum aromas cut by lime pith and squeezed lemon notes. Ruby red grapefruit, mulberry and baking spice elements pop on the palate.
This is a stylish wine. It has fine acidity and light poised fruity character. With plenty of orange zest and a herbal touch, this blend of Cinsault, Grenache and Syrah is a generous wine, ready to drink now.
This is a full, ripe Champagne with a lightly mineral texture. It comes from the northern end of the Montagne de Reims, giving dominance to Pinot Noir. It is a food-style of Champagne, with its dry texture and almond and citric flavors.
Blending Sauvignon Blanc with Chardonnay allows this wine to be broad, ripe and gently textured. Still young, it is bone dry, crisp with citrus and rounded with almonds and white fruits. The wine needs a few more months, so drink from mid-2016.
Apple blossoms perfume pristine lemon, lime and tangerine in this invigorating off-dry Riesling. Vivacious and brisk, it's uncomplicated yet refreshingly thirst quenching. Drink now.
A full ripe and refreshingly fruity wine, this is full of grapefruit, apricot and ripe pear flavors. It has a touch of spice and a firmly mineral character. Drink now.
Blossomy and perfumed, this white wine made from red Pinot Noir grapes exudes much of the variety's smoky floral flair against the backdrop of a crisp, refreshing white wine. The palate is concentrated in pressed apple and pear notes that finish briskly. Drink now.
A smooth and ripe rosé from Touriga Nacional and Tinta Roriz, this is a cherry and red berry flavored wine. It has weight and a rich texture that are balanced by the crisp raspberry and fresh apple brightness at the end. Drinkble beginning now.
This slowly reveals aromas of pressed rose, star anise, ripe berry and a menthol note. On the firm, straightforward palate, hints of licorice and clove add interest to dried black cherry. Give the bracing tannins a few more years to unclench and then drink up to capture the remaining fruit.
The grapes were farmed biodynamically, fermented with wild yeasts, and just two barrels were aged in new oak. The stiff berry fruit is cloaked in details of stem and earth, tart acids and a whiff of compost.
Vanilla and bitter peach-pit aromas open this blend of 70% Garnacha Blanca with 30% Viognier. In the mouth, this is round, with healthy acidity. Waxy melony flavors are further softened by lees and vanilla notes, while the finish is creamy and a touch flat.
This off-dry Gewürztraminer opens with a powerful bouquet of bergamot, violet and rose perfume that seeps into the palate. The aromatics are a bit overwhelming, but bright tangerine flavors stand up well. It's a light-footed wine that finishes briskly.
Kiwi, peach and pineapple mark this blend of 93% Sauvignon Blanc and 7% Sémillon, providing a tropical character and personality. Medium in body and weight, it finishes moderately influenced by oak and a touch of vanilla cream.
Ripe butterscotch and a notable flank of big vanilla and oak greet the entry of this vineyard-designate. It makes for a luxurious wine reflective of a warm vintage and approach.
Aromas of cedary oak, vanilla and spiced berry fruits are encouraging. In the mouth, however, this old-vines Malbec is jumpy and rubbery, with high acidity. Flavors of stalky red plum taste mildly oxidized and Sherried, while the finish is herbal and tastes burnt. All in all, this just doesn't fully come together.
Clean apple, crisp pear and fresh yellow pluot aromas are lifted even more by stony chalkiness on this wine's nicely balanced nose. The palate is ripe with Japanese pear flesh and Anjou pear skins, yet the edges are bursting with tart lime, kumquat and green apple-skin flavors.
Whimsically feline packaging aside, this fruity and forward Pinot Grigio does a good job balancing bright luscious stone fruit against refreshing lemon-lime acidity. It's an easygoing, widely appealing dry white at a bargain price. Drink now.
This wine shows smooth red fruit that is light and generic, with modest weight and an earthy flavor. The wine spent a bit of time in 25% new oak, though it doesn't show up in the flavors.
Aromas of espresso, French oak, blackberry and exotic spice lead the way. The firm palate offers raw black cherry, coconut and oak-driven spice alongside racy acidity and fine-grained tannins. It closes on a note of roasted coffee bean.
This is a solid Verdejo with stony aromas of citrus fruits, grapefruit in particular. A palate with citric acidity creates a fresh platform for orange and grapefruit flavors. A round plump finish with briny citrus flavors is a good ending.
Floral leesy aromas of chunky stone fruits and citrus come with a green note of lettuce leaf. This feels round and a touch oily, while briny mildly bitter flavors of citrus finish pithy.
Touches of autumn leaves and dried herbs lend a savory feel to this dry and tightly composed Riesling. Bracing acidity and savory apple and pear flavors mark the palate.
Fresh cantaloupe aromas, mouth-filling pear and peach flavors and a generous texture make this an extroverted wine that could make a great pairing with salty cheeses. It is full bodied, very smooth-textured and long on the finish, where honey and vanilla flavors echo.
Flirty and floral, this sunny off-dry Pinot Noir rosé (blended with a touch of Dornfelder) offers forward fruitiness in an elegant frame. With a kiss of strawberry and cherry flavors, it's an accessible, yet satisfying quaffer.
Raspberry and cherry aromas are mild while not stirring much excitement. This feels a bit raw and tannic, but it's got enough body to hold up. Berry and plum flavors finish with hints of spice and chocolate.
Earthy plum and stalky berry aromas are bolstered by bold oak aromas. This feels good and healthy, with spicy oaky flavors that are dry lactic and push the wine's fruit to the background. A woody spicy, minty finish ends this. Drink through 2017.
Cedar and vanilla notes mark the nose of this wine, which boasts ample weight, modest fruit and a soft, open-knit texture. It's appealing for its oaky charm.
Reduced rubbery aromas of blackberry and black currant come with a touch of mushroom. This is extracted, heavy and blocky on the palate, while baked blackberry flavors are massive but short on elegance. Bitter coffee flavors, rugged tannins and stickiness make for a heavy finish.
Bracing and tightly wound, this opens with subdued aromas of pressed rose, resin and a whiff of exotic spice. The evolved palate isn't in sync with the nose, offering raisin and a touch of anise as well as aggressive, astringent tannins that give it an abrupt, raspy finish. It's already drying out so drink now.
Luscious honeyed tangerine and yellow peach notes are offset by a streak of minerality in this easy, off-dry Riesling. It's delicate in body yet juicy and refreshing. Drink now.
Aromas of oak, toast, coconut and dark berry lead the nose and carry over to the bracing palate along with white pepper and oak-driven spice. Firm, extremely astringent tannins give this a bracing finish. Drink after 2018.
This medium-bodied, understated wine has a rather light red color with brown undertones. It offers subtle earthy and smoky aromas, tart fruit flavors like cranberries, and an appropriately tannic texture. While its flavors are subtle, the balance is great and this wine stayed fresh for three days after opening.
It's a midnight-black wine, full-bodied and tannic, with immense black currant, grilled meat and black pepper flavors that finish bone dry. Already throwing some sediment, it will live for two decades, without gaining in complexity. Drink now–2025.
Coming from the cool 2010 vintage, this 100% varietal wine doesn't quite seem to have fully ripened but still offers plenty of enjoyment with its savory notes of leafy herbs, olive and cherry. It's elegant in its styling with a fresh feel and a cinnamon-speckled finish.
In this crisp, fresh, very dry rosé Champagne, the red fruits are laced with acidity and apple. A touch of bitterness suggests the wine needs to age a few months in bottle, to soften and get a more generous feel.
Racy acidity and oak-inspired lemon, lime and tropical fruit flavors mark this bone-dry, elegant wine, with a minerally edge. Don't drink it too cold.
Simple but with depth, this wine has structure and some good tannins, along with the bright cherry fruit flavors and balanced acidity. It's a wine to drink now, full of flavor and ripe fruits.
This brightly acidic, clean wine doesn't appear to have any oak influence. What you get are pure, ripe orange, Meyer lemon, lime and peach flavors that finish honeyed, yet dry. It's an easy wine to drink with many foods.
This single-vineyard selection is aggressively tannic, earthy and herbal. Time may help smooth it out. There's plenty of black fruits and dark chocolate, and chewy, somewhat rough tannins.
Richness and rusticity ride side by side in this Pinot Noir. It has enormously ripe raspberry, cherry and persimmon flavors, with a balanced jacket of oak and crisp acidity. On the other hand, the tannins are edgy, giving the wine a jagged feeling. The wine will age for many years, without gaining complexity.
Subdued aromas recall Alpine wild flowers and lychee. The fresh, linear palate offers Golden Delicious apples and citrus notes with a hint of wax alongside crisp acidity.
Chatons, which means “kittens,” indicates this is a younger style of wine from Château du Cèdre. The dark, perfumed, mint and black berry flavored fruits give richness and precociousness. The wine is going to develop over the short term so drink from 2016.
An unusual blend of Zinfandel, Petite Sirah and Teroldego, this red wine is dry and tannic. The blackberry, currant, mocha and white pepper flavors are drinking well now.
This wine opens with an intense bouquet of white roses with accents of baking spices. The flowery sensation carries over to the palate along with ripe banana, pear and clove, plus the heat of alcohol. It concludes with a slightly sweet finish.
Very Douro in its mineral texture and dry core, it also has a surround of ripe black fruits. It's concentrated and has some aging potential, although it can be drunk now.
Still young, it is full of spice from wood aging along with juicy black fruits. It is soft, dominated by black currant and acidity. Not for aging, it will be ready by the end of 2014.
Reedy berry aromas mixed with herbal notes set up a chunky, voluminous palate. Spicy flavors of olive, green herbs, tobacco and oak run alongside berry and plum fruit. On the finish, a resiny oak flavor and herbal notes meld then fade away. This is 55% Carmenère, 30% Petit Verdot and 15% Syrah.
A ripe, rich and deliciously spicy wine, it has a light touch of white pepper, red berry fruits and a broad brush of acidity. It's rounded, although with some tannic structure, and can certainly be drunk now.
This Merlot-based blend is dry, hard in tannins and brisk in acids. It has an intense core of blackberries, black currants and oak. Ready to drink now, it needs rich, oily foods, like short ribs, to cut through the astringency.
Notable for a soft, buttery creaminess that makes it feel caressing in the mouth. There's just enough acidity to give a boost to the intense lemondrop candy, pineapple, crème brulée and vanilla flavors. Drink up with roast chicken, grilled salmon or portobello mushroom risotto.
This wine shows its high alcohol with pepperiness and too much fruit richness. There is certainly power there, followed by superripe plums and dark tannins that are almost enveloped by the fruitiness. Drink from 2015.
A wine that packs a punch of black fruits and dark tannins, it is very structured. Still dense and dry, it needs to soften so the berry fruits will show, giving a rich wine with a fresher aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
Perhaps it's the bottle age but this Zin is plush and voluptuous, bright in red raspberry and blackberry fruit with a smoky undertone. Layered, the texture is dense and the finish long. A good pizza wine.
It flatters with ripe apricot, orange, lime and papaya flavors, enhanced with oak and brightened with acidity. Bone dry on the finish, it has a firm edge of minerality.
It shows good acidity, a pleasant scour of tannins and complex flavors of raspberries, currants and mushrooms. But a tannic graininess results in a lack of delicacy. Already throwing some sediment, it will age for many years.
Pretty fragrances recall white spring flowers and white fruit. The bright palate offers juicy Granny Smith, yellow peaches and citrus alongside crisp acidity that leaves a clean, dry finish.
The grapes are from Mount Veeder, and the wine shows that appellation's strong tannins, as well as its classic black currant and mineral flavors that finish so dry and clean. Made from 100% Cabernet, it was aged in 50% new French oak. The end result is complex, but astringent, not a wine you want to drink now. Give it until 2020 and see what it's doing.
This is one of those Chardonnays that's delicious from the first sip. It's not complicated, but is rich in mango, yellow peach and oak-inspired buttered toast, butterscotch, honey and vanilla bean flavors. The grapes are from the Oak Knoll District, and the wine has refreshing acidity.
This well-priced Moscato offers intense sensations of honeysuckle, tropical fruit, ripe yellow peach and juicy honeydew melon. The palate is brightened by fresh acidity, which imparts a lively, bright character.
Aromas include white spring flowers, tropical fruit and a hint of graphite. The juicy palate offers green apples, white peach and melon alongside fresh acidity. Delicate almond marks the close.
Fragrant in tropical guava and grapefruit, this is a clean, crisp Chardonnay. Layered with acidity and textured enough to go with food, it's a good wine to serve on occasions big and small.
This 100% Merlot has elevated qualities of complexity. It's dry and quite tannic, with raspberry, cherry, licorice, herb and sandalwood flavors that finish with a rich spiciness. Drink now–2016.
Sweet and candied on the nose, it has a touch of citrus and melon to the flavor profile. It has an okay mouthfeel.
Arabica coffee and toasted hazelnut aromas are layered on top of wild-berry notes. Overall, this medium-bodied wine feels soft and a tad runny.
It's oxidized and nutty on the nose. The palate is peachy, while flavors of nuts, dried-out citrus and baked stone fruits finish bland.
This is a big Merlot, earthy but a tad flat, with a tobacco-like bitterness on the tail end.
Cut with sulfur, this is a wine whose bitterness hides the potential of the strawberry fruits and acidity. Off-dry, it's unbalanced.
A sugar water style of Vinho Verde, all sweetness and acidity. It is fresh and clean, very crisp and green.
Diminished scents of rubber, dried cherry and raspberry translate onto the nimble, glossy palate. The acidity becomes jumpy on the finish, leaving the wine feeling tense and asymmetrical.
Oregano, sun-dried grass and vanilla scents veneer seemingly volatile notes of plum and blackberry. Although the wine comes with a supple attack, high-strung acidity marks the midpalate, which makes the wine feel stressed and uneasy.
Compost aromas and a clunky feeling palate get this off on the wrong foot. Flavors of burnt berry fruit and sweetness fail to impress. This shows hardly any snap on a cloying finish.
There's a tannic flatness to this 76% Cabernet Sauvignon, with 12% Malbec and 12% Petit Verdot blended in. The crunchy blackberry and cassis fall somewhat flat on the palate.
Silky and easygoing on the palate, this comes with slightly sweet flavors of shaved apples, pears and tropical fruits.
Course and snappy on the palate, this blanc de blancs features broad apple flavors.
A Grenache-based rosé, this features broad aromas of tart red fruits and an edgy, medium-bodied palate.
A vivid floral aroma pops from the glass and carries through to the palate, blending orange blossom with bursts of cherry, orange and red vermouth. It's smooth in texture, full-bodied and not very tannic.
Soapy, funky aromas feel unfocused, with bland flavors of melon and not much else. It finishes soft.
A rosé of Sangiovese, Montepulciano and Syrah, this has flavors of herb and raspberry, which are etched with nervy acids.
Quince and apple juice notes lead to a tart, medium-bodied palate. The elevated acidity makes for a rigid finish.
Medium in body, this deals a slender peach flavor, bearing acids that become jumpy toward the finish.
Vaguely floral aromas precede a sweet, cloying palate that tastes candied.
A ripe-smelling wine, with notes of wilted flower, lychee and papaya flesh. It feels amorphous on attack, and the clingy finish shows some bitterness.
In this unbalanced, medium-dry wine, the fruit, the acidity and the sweetness don't seem to want to hang together. At the end, the acidity wins, while the rest of the wine is left behind.
Kiwi, mint and green apple notes mark the nose. Medium in weight, it features seemingly underripe acids that give the palate a discernible nerviness.
Aromas of worn saddle leather and stewed blackberries and raspberries come with some volatility. Overall, the palate feels taut and tense. Tart acids cut the finish short and kick the salivary glands into overdrive.
Tropical, soapy aromas are yeasty and flat. Flavors of lychee and melon have no follow-through and finish mealy.
Candied plum and red berry aromas smell like red licorice. Flavors are raisiny, with sourness and astringency.
The color of castor oil, this sweet table wine offers clove and root beer flavors that cling to the finish.
This is full of fruit and weighty tannins. Coming from one of the finest vineyards in Burgundy, it is going to have great power and an opulent nature. This wine also has elegance, its black fruits controlled and with a mineral edge. That doesn't take away the power, it enhances the stylishness of this grand wine. Drink from 2020.
This could be the best Astrales to date. Alluring scents of plum, blueberry and spice are backed by balsam dust and briary pipe-tobacco aromas. Deep and tannic on the palate, then packed with mocha, chocolate, toasted marshmallow, cassis and cherry cough drop flavors, this is fixed and firm now, with a staunch, intense, nervy finish. Drink from 2015–2028.
Initially, this is a richly ripe wine with tropical fruit flavors. It also has an immense sense of structure that supports the fruit impressively. It's dense, concentrated, exuding power and solidity, while always keeping a sense of elegance. Drink from 2018.
This is powerful and rich, allowing just a note of freshness to creep into the firm structure. Dark tannins, black fruits and smoky wood flavors combine harmoniously, lending a sense of great power and long-term aging potential. Drink from 2019.
Half Cabernet Sauvignon with the rest Merlot and Cabernet Franc, this wine opens with aromas of fresh herbs, fig, barrel spice and dark fruit. The palate brings some astringency, needing some food to tame it.
Ripe plum, game, truffle, leather and menthol are some of the aromas you'll find on this earthy wine. The tightly wound palate offers dried black cherry, chopped sage, mint and roasted coffee bean alongside raspy tannins that leave a mouth-drying finish.
Herb and cherry notes mingle on the nose of this 75% Grenache and 25% Syrah blend. On the medium-weight palate, pleasant pepper, cinnamon and clove notes join the ripe cherries, then conclude with a hint of mocha. Drink now–2020.
Gravel, dark red berries and a raw beef character show on the nose of this accessibly priced wine. The palate offers beet and dark cranberry juice flavors, along with black sage and camphor. Still tightly wound, it will get better with patience.
This wine features a fresh nose of grapefruit and lemon peel. It is bright on the palate, offering flavors of grapefruit, pear and green apple. It remains crisp and clean across the entire tongue right into the orange zest finish.
Aromas of stewed prune and fig follow through to the evolved palate along with raisin, licorice and a green note of powdered sage. Austere, astringent tannins leave a raspy finish. You'll also notice the heat of evident alcohol.
Made with organically grown Sangiovese grapes, this structured red has subdued aromas of mature black cherry, blue flower and baking spice. The soft palate offers prune and sweet vanilla alongside rather fleeting tannins.
Light cherry and raspberry aromas are subdued but fresh. This blend of 85% Tempranillo and Cabernet Sauvignon has a medium body, while plum and cherry flavors are straightforward. A lightly baked flavor and spice notes help the finish along, as does the jolt of Cabernet.
Barrel notes of spice, vanilla, caramel and herbs lead to red- and blue-fruit flavors, with the tannins showing some astringency. Merlot wouldn't be a first guess but it still brings appeal.
The aromas of plum, blackberry, vanilla, dried herbs and spice provide intrigue. The blue- and black-fruit flavors are linear in style but deliver enjoyment.
The green apple, apple skin and flower aromas pop. The off-dry peach flavors keep you coming back for more.
Dusty, gritty citrus aromas are softened by leesy notes and a vanilla scent. The palate is foamy and short on complexity. Flavors of orange, nectarine and white pepper turn slightly bitter, while citric acidity lends freshness to the finish.
Packed with fruit and crisp acidity, this is a bright, light and perfumed wine. Red-berry flavors are lifted by red currants and a light spice. Drink now for total freshness.
There's a seltzer quality to the nose of this wine, with aromas of pink-grapefruit spritz, apple and pear cider, and fresh baking soda. It's tight and grippy on the palate, with flavors of green-apple flesh and tangerine skin that linger into the finish.
Baked plum, roasted coffee bean, toast and a whiff of grilled herb lead the nose. The concentrated palate offers dried black cherry, blackberry jam and licorice alongside assertive tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish. The fruit is showing signs of drying out so drink sooner rather than later.
This closed, youthful wine is wrapped up in the ripeness and grippy nature of the vintage. It has a tropical edge to the fruit, a mix of pineapple and guava supported by juicy peach that finishes full bodied and lush on the palate.
Based in Humbligny, midway between Menetou-Salon and Sancerre, this producer has vines in both appellations. A delicate, perfumed wine, this enjoys a good balance between acidity and apple and white peach flavors. It's rounded, full in the mouth and ready to drink.
A light approach to Chablis, this brings out crisp fruitiness, attractive acidity, apple flavors and a touch of steeliness. With its creamy, ripe aftertaste, the wine is ready to drink.
From the Mâcon appellation that is dominated by the formidable rock of Solutré, this is a ripe, full-bodied wine. It offers juicy acidity, fresh sliced apple flavors and a touch of spice. The wine is ready, although it will be better from late 2016.
Black slate, vanilla and red cherries show on the nose of this widely available wine, which is nicely complex for such a large case load. The palate is medium in body but heartily spiced, with dark pomegranate and cherry-pie flavors hanging on a chalky tannic structure.
This is firm and tannic, reflecting the challenges of the vintage, yet it does show classic garrigue aromas and flavors of black olives and dark cherries. Drink it now with grilled meats, or hold it a year or two in the hopes of it softening a little.
This perfumed wine has a rustic edge that should blow away as the wine matures. For the fruit, it is red-berry time: bright, soft and lifted by gentle tannins and lively acidity. The wine will improve for a few more months, so drink from late 2017.
An herbal wine, this is full of gooseberry and grapefruit flavors. It's tangy, tight with a steely texture and a strong mineral streak. The wine is fresh, fruity and ready to drink.
This charming and refreshing wine has aromas like green apples. Richer flavors that suggest white peach accompany a tangy but smooth texture. Light to medium bodied, it is perfect for lunch or pre-dinner drinking.
Intensely fruity, this sun-kissed blend of Chardonnay, Viognier and Sauvignon Blanc bursts of yellow peach and tangerine flavors. It's ripe and weighty on the palate, but finishes brightly on a zesty lemonade streak. Enjoy soon for its youthful exuberance.
A blend of 90% Sangiovese, 5% Cabernet Sauvignon and 5% Merlot, this opens with bright aromas of woodland berry, blue flower and dark cooking spice. The soft, easy-drinking palate offers juicy wild cherry, cinnamon and a hint of clove alongside glossy tannins. Drink soon to capture freshness.
Even though the nose still offers aromas of French oak, scorched earth, dried berry and menthol, this wine has seen better days. The lean, bracing palate shows firm acidity, assertive, fine-grained tannins and a hint of spice but the fruit has almost completely dried up.
Aromas of tilled soil, overripe black plum, fleshy black cherry and a hint of farmyard lead the nose and carry through to the full-bodied palate. It's ripe, round and ready, with evolved tannins and soft acidity so drink soon.
Easygoing apple, pear and citrus aromas precede a mild palate that's a touch dilute. Melon, papaya and tropical flavors finish with a sense of lightness. This is 70% Treixadura with Torrontés and other white grapes.
Violet, plum, leather and baking spice aromas merge on this easygoing red. The no-fuss palate offers black cherry, star anise and a hint of clove alongside polished but rather fleeting tannins. Drink soon.
Ripe, rich black cherries and berries are accented by layers crushed stone on this elegant Cabernet Sauvignon. Fresh fruit concentrates the palate, but it's brightened by a jolt of acidity and fine, lingering tannins.
Juicy blackberry, blueberry, black cherry, violet, mineral and black pepper are just some of the aromas and flavors of this savory, vibrant red. Made with organically farmed grapes and fermented with native yeasts, it's earthy, zesty, firmly structured and yet so drinkable. Kermit Lynch Wine Merchants, Estelle Imports.
The Black Eyed Peas' singer Fergie and renowned winemaker Joey Tensley present an in-your-face Viognier, deeply yellow, nearing brown in color, with aromas of dried apricot, honey-roasted nuts and smoky mezcal with lime. Lush flavors of burnt orange peel, smoke and Scotch whisky make for an intriguing drink, certainly not for those seeking a dainty white wine.
On first pour it is the oak —25% new French—that leads with prominent notes of vanilla, but as it opens up these recede to reveal baked apple, butterscotch and pear. It's creamy and almost unctuous in feel with the sweetness of the fruit giving the suggestion of residual sugar.
There's a high-toned quality to this Cabernet, juicy and yet restrained in red cherry and dried cranberry, just a suggestion of cedar and dried herb lurking in the background. Oaky and grippy toward the finish, the approachable flavors are laced with vanilla.
Burly tar and campfire aromas pick up floral lift from lavender on this Syrah-dominant, relatively high-alcohol blend. Grilled meats, creosote and asphalt flavors power the slightly rough-edged palate.
This five-grape, Bordeaux-style blend is principally Cabernet Sauvignon, and offers forward, moderately light fruit flavors of strawberry and cherry. It's balanced and pleasant tasting, though lacking the depth that you might wish for in this price range.
With 4% Viognier giving this wine a distinct floral lift, it's aromatic with notes of nectarine, pear and toasty barrel spice. It's creamy, almost oily in feel, with an assortment of stone fruit flavors that carry through the finish.
Lemony and toasty, this approachable wine is rich and balanced, its texture soft and the flavors long-lasting, highlighted by a taste of lemon meringue.
There is a satisfying blend of Merlot and Syrah with Aragonez and Touriga Nacional to give a fruity wine that also manages to retain a strongly tannic structure. It's ripe, full in red fruit tones and can be drunk early, but will be better after 2015.
This complex wine has a touch of sweetness allowing the fruit to be ready to drink sooner. At the same time, it has structure, strong minerality and a floral, fragrant character. Drink from 2015 or wait for the full effect until 2018.
This wine shows the characteristic granitic texture of the region. Berry fruits smother the firm tannins to give a rich, juicy wine that's bold, ripe, and ready to drink.
This blend of Syrah, Petit Verdot, Aragonez and Alicante Bouschet shows power, with dense tannins shouldered by ripe black fruit flavors and a solid structure. From the Estremoz region of the Alentejo, it's a powerhouse of flavors and juicy acidity. Drink after 2016.
The bouquet of this wine offers aromas of blueberry pie and hints of toast. A mix of fruity and floral tones show brightly on the palate, with blueberry, cranberry, lavender and baking spice flavors. Soft tannins accent a long-lasting finish.
Peach, honeyed limes and apple sauce aromas lead the nose of this blend made with 62% Viognier, 26% Grenache Blanc and 12% Rousanne. Caliza's Carl Bowker demonstrates great restraint in these often bombastic white Rhônes, so the apple-led palate is subdued, showing bits of spice or a touch of mustard on the end.
The wine is full and ripe, generous both in its black fruits and its tannins. It's rich, juicy and packed with berry fruits, a touch of wood and a mineral texture showing at the end. Drink from 2016.
This firm and rich wine is full of dark tannins partnered by a warm, spicy southern character with wild herbs as well as generous red berry fruits. It's ready to drink.
With its dominance of Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a structured, juicy and black currant-flavored wine from the northern Haut-Médoc. Firm tannins, licorice and spice flavors are cut by acidity. It needs medium-term aging, so drink from 2017.
Intensely herbaceous, this is a crisp, lemon and grapefruit-driven wine. Bright and fruity, it has a touch of minerality to keep it structured. Drink now.
A wine that is, unusually for Bordeaux, dominated by Sémillon. That gives a creamy, ripe and still muted character and demands another few years aging. The acidity and fresh citrus fruits are filled out with melon and ripe pear flavors. Drink this wine from 2016.
A taste of Key lime and tonic unveil a vibrancy of aroma and high-acid flavor in this wine, additionally characterized by layers of crisp white peach and pineapple juice.
Floral aromas of freesia and jasmine are dominant on the nose, while the fruit-driven palate shows flavors of green apple, Bartlett pear and white stone fruit.
Medium-bodied, soft and juicy in red berry fruit, this comes from the heart of the Russian River Valley. Not entirely cool-climate but not overly warm, either, it provides a balanced take on the grape that'll stand up to hearty meals of coq au vin or cassoulet.
This earthy wine features aromas of truffle, ripe plum, leather and just a whiff of barnyard. The palate offers black cherry, crushed raspberry and notes of baking spice alongside assertive tannins.
This balanced wine is crisp, taut and mineral. It tastes very dry, packed with acidity and perfumed apple and lemon flavors. It's quite ready to drink, but will be better from 2016.
This soft and ripe wine is full of bright cherry flavors, with gentle tannins and just a hint of wood aging. A proper Pinot Noir acidity brings out the fruitiness of the wine. Drink now.
Intense tannins and full body make this Syrah difficult to savor at this point, but it may round out with aging. It smells like smoke and black pepper, and tastes like grilled beef and blackberries. It is firm and astringent in texture, tight and concentrated in flavor. Best after 2018.
Leathery red berry aromas move to dark fruit after sitting in the glass. This Malbec is jammy in feel, but overall it's fresh. Earthy flavors of spiced plum, baked berry and salt finish toasty, woody and briny.
Tasty and dry, this offers typical smoky, black peppery aromas, dark fruit flavors and medium body. It comes off as elegant rather than big, due to the smooth texture, slightly subtle flavors and silky texture.
Powerful and pleasant cinnamon aromas dominate the somewhat one-dimensional nose—from Red Hot candies to peppermint stick. The palate expands to cola, blackberry pie and black pepper, with decent grip.
A blend of 70% Inzolia and 30% Viognier, this bright wine offers aromas of yellow stone fruit and citrus. The straightforward palate shows peach, unripe apricot and lime alongside zesty acidity.
Intense aromas of fragrant white flower, lemon and aromatic herb lead the way. The palate isn't quite as expressive as the nose but offers lime, grapefruit and a hint of sage alongside fresh acidity. A saline note wraps up the finish.
Initially rather shy, this eventually reveals delicate scents of fragrant yellow flower, orchard fruit and a whiff of citrus. The linear palate is a bit austere, offering yellow apple skin, lime and a mineral note alongside firm acidity.
Red fruit dominates this attractive, light wine that shows the acidity of the year while also suggesting light tannins. The aftertaste has a touch of smokiness. It will develop quickly.
This offers aromas suggesting honeysuckle and honeydew melon while the fresh, linear palate displays grapefruit, pineapple and sage. A hint of bitter nut closes the finish.
This opens with pretty aromas suggesting white spring flower, citrus and white stone fruit. The bright palate offers nectarine, chopped herb and pear alongside refreshing acidity.
Soft, lifted pine and lime-peel notes make for a refreshing opening. The palate seems less focused and a bit confected, but slender and fresh nonetheless. Drink soon.
Gritty, granular, medicinal aromas smell reedy and like crushed vitamins. A choppy palate and flavors of plum, grape juice and raspberry end with cutting tannins and the essence of raspberry.
This is a fruit-driven wine showing lots of apple and melon aromas, broad peach and apple flavors and a generous texture. It's very tasty and refreshing and has touch of sweetness.
Aromas of toasted nut, brimstone, citrus and a balsam open. The palate offers yellow apple, medicinal herb and nectarine while a saline note marks the close.
Juicy, fresh tangerine and peach flavors shine brightly on the palate of this vibrantly fruity Riesling. Approachable yet elegant, it offers uncomplicated refreshment with delicately lingering sweetness marking the finish. Drink now through 2018.
Made with Nero d'Avola and other Sicilian grapes, this offers fruity aromas of dark berry and a whiff of dark spice. The straightforward palate shows ripe black cherry and blackberry while notes of ground black pepper add interest. It's easy drinking so enjoy soon.
Saucy, spicy berry aromas are earthy. This has a fleshy, jammy mouthfeel and flavors of blueberry, cassis and blackberry. A dry, spicy, lightly herbal finish confirms the wine's above-average status.
Smoky berry aromas are natural but nothing special. This has a regular, balanced mouthfeel along with flavors of cherry, cassis, herbs and spice. A modest finish is fresh and holds it together.
Bright, punchy raspberry, pomegranate and cherry aromas properly announce cherry and raspberry flavors. This feels snappy, with a medium body. Light spice notes accent bright red-fruit flavors on the finish. For a carbonic macerated Rioja, this is pretty good.
A blend of half and half Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, this is a rounded, full wine. It has plenty of red-berry fruits along with spice, a tight texture and a crisp aftertaste. The wine offers a good reflection of the fruitiness of the year.
Light and fruity, this has touches of spice as well as attractive red-fruit flavors. It is a refreshing, crisp wine—lively and only lightly structured.
This everyday Viura opens with yeasty aromas of green fruits and chewing gum. It's crisp on the palate, with a medium-weight body. Flavors of apple, citrus, peach pit and white pepper finish fresh.
Produced by the Domaine de Chevalier team, this is a bright and crisp wine with red currant and tight red-berry flavors. These are lifted and given a refreshing character by the acidity. The wine is clean, bright and fruity. Drink now.
This wine has structure and strong old-wood flavors. It comes from the most southerly Premier Cru in the Côte de Beaune, close to the Chalonnaise vineyards. The fruit is still working its way through the tannins of this firm wine. It will have a juicy red-berry character as it develops, giving the potential for aging. Drink from 2018.
Try this rare wine from a vineyard planted in the 1880s. Aromas like maple syrup and vanilla, and flavors like raspberry and cherry jam make this wine seem sweet and feel soft as a pillow, but understand that the alcohol level is almost high enough for a Port.
Bright aromas of lime, lemon zest and a hint of white flower lead the nose while the straightforward palate offers exotic fruit, citrus and a hint of pineapple. Notes of dried herb and bitter almond add interest.
Ripe apple notes are pervaded by dried-fruit flavors. The palate has less aroma but is textured and defined, with echoing apple notes on the finish.
This wine is structured and tight with minerality and zesty lemon flavors. It has a definite texture and a nervy character that needs to round out.
Green pear and soft citrus are the chief charms of this wine. The palate is clean, dry and easy to drink. It's a good all-rounder for a party.
On first take, this smells a bit vegetal and chemical, but time and air clean it up. Racy, tight and lean on the palate, this tastes of tart green fruits, lime and green apple in particular. A slightly broken, yeasty finish suggests early-stage oxidation.
Made with 100% Chardonnay, this opens with aromas of toast, oak, acacia flower and orchard fruit. On the palate, oak-driven sensations compete with yellow apple, citrus and bitter walnut. Even though it has an abv of 13.5%, you'll notice evident alcohol on the close.
The reserve gets 90% new French oak, and there is a strong scent of oaky toast, with flavors that follow. Plump cherry fruit fills a broad midpalate, finishing with rather hard tannins that show a green edge.
Extremely subtle aromas of toasted oak, yellow flower and a whiff of dill waft out of the glass. The firm palate offers yellow apple and nectarine peels and a hint of oak.
This opens with delicate aromas that recall orchard fruit and yellow wild flower. The juicy, easygoing palate shows ripe pear, white peach and citrus alongside bright acidity.
This totally young, herbaceous wine is packed with fruitiness. Crisp lemon and a dash of grapefruit accent this local blend of Colombard, Ugni Blanc and Sauvignon Blanc. It's bright, ready to drink now.
With aromas like butter and custard, and flavors that suggest ripe apple and crisp lemon, this is both refreshing and multifaceted. It feels light bodied and has a bit of a sweet-tart balance going for it.
This smells taut, lean and crisp, while the mouthfeel is moderately rich, with mild flavors of pear and melon to fill it out. This wine is not a solo star but a good supporting player for lunch, wine time, or a first course at dinner, especially considering the price.
This is a plump, perky little red, full of ripe, bouncy cherry fruit on the nose and palate. It's an easy quaff that falls away quickly on the finish.
There's an earthy, rustic quality to this soft red Bordeaux blend that veers into overripe, syrupy qualities on the palate, giving it a heaviness that seems to defy its cooler appellation.
The first-ever commercial rosé from this producer is dull in color, with briny, pepper aromas. The palate on this Syrah-based wine is chunky and generic in feel, while salty flavors of apple skins and citrus finish salty.
This blend of 60% Syrah, 30% Grenache and 10% Cinsault is just a bit too confected. Bubble gum, melon and stone-fruit notes are bold and forward, then finish tart and dry.
This is fresh, fruity and medium bodied. Aromas recall mild peach and pineapple, and flavors convey ripe apple with a dash of vanilla, plus a smooth texture. The wine is appealing and shows no rough edges.
Briary raspberry and tomato aromas open this light-bodied Pinot. The palate is linear in feel, with lightly herbal, currant flavors that finish on accents of resiny oak.
The herbal side of the grape dominates here, in both aromas and flavors. The mixed red berries have a wild, mountain-grown flavor, with streaks of green bean. Acids are chalky, and a thoughtful food pairing—something meaty and pepper-crusted—is what will bring out the best in this wine.
Red currants dominate this textured rosé that has a mineral element along with its fresh fruit and tight acidity. The aftertaste is brilliant with crispness.
Aromas of lees and buttercup come with a hint of tropical fruit. This fading, Albariño is plump and generic in feel, without much cut or minerality. Melon, apple and pithy citrus flavors finish similarly, with mild bitterness.
Briary strawberry and tea aromas are light on the nose. The palate is modest and juicy in feel, with peppery, slightly bitter plum and cherry flavors.
Citrus, red plum and currant aromas are wild and gamy. This has an edgy mouthfeel with a rubbery sensation, while citrus and candied red-berry flavors hum along.
This blend of 55% Sémillon and 45% Sauvignon Blanc offers aromas of fresh-cut apple and pear with an undercurrent of grapefruit and lime. Light and ephemeral, the finish leans savory in a big way, a taste of salinity lingering.
An earthy funk and puckeringly dry tannins mark this wine, which remains dry on the palate from start to finish, characterized along the way in leather and black pepper.
A very dry and firmly tannic wine, this doesn't give up much aroma, and the flavors also seem bound up with the astringent texture. With a bit of time some blueberry and blackberry aromas emerge, and flavors of black olive, too. This wine seems to require the most marbled steak to balance its austerity in texture, or perhaps 10 years in a cool cellar.
Pickled and leesy on the nose, this kosher Cava runs low on verve and bubbles. Scallion, green herb and green banana flavors finish similarly, with herbal notes leading the way. 100% Macabeo.
Dark in color and showing jammy cherry and boysenberry aromas along with resiny oak, this Tempranillo-Cabernet blend feels sticky and on the verge of cloying. Lightly herbal, green-leaning berry flavors are masked by clove and vanilla notes, while the finish is low on fruit and high on residual oak.
Murky, earthy aromas are suggestive of animal hide. Rubbery and bouncy in feel, this tastes like generic Carmenère, meaning blackberry, coffee grinds and herbal berry flavors dominate.
This bright pink-colored wine is made from Malbec. It is fruity and fresh with strawberry flavors and layers of acidity that give it a crisp, tight aftertaste. Drink now.
A blend of 50% Sangiovese, 20% Merlot, 20% Petit Verdot and 10% Syrah, this simple red opens with aromas of fresh violets, red berries and a whiff of spice. The brisk palate offers black cherries, a note of white pepper and a hint of sage alongside tangy acidity and loose-knit tannins.
Aromas of saline, apple cider and oak suggest moderate overall quality. This has a creamy, heavy mouthfeel and flavors of melon, apple and caramel. An oaky finish feels resiny and tastes woody and sweet.
Every Gascon white grape seems to have ended up in this ripe, soft blend. It offers plenty of cool-climate acidity, with lemon and pink grapefruit. It also has a steely, more mineral bite, with a more honeyed, perfumed aftertaste.
Low in alcohol for a Syrah, this shows light, underripe flavors of strawberry and white pepper. Not particularly complex, it's maturing quickly and should be consumed over the next couple of years.
Searingly dry, to the edge of sour, this emphasizes mineral and citrus rind over fruit. This austere style might match well with some sausages on the grill to cut the acidity.
Plum, spice and red berries on the nose and palate give this wine character. The palate is dry and spicy with a focused edge.
Made from a majority of Merlot rounded out by other red Bordeaux varieties, this wine leans savory, featuring mushroom and leather within a suggestion of Martini olive water. The fruit is more shy, revealing black currant at best, with a flat, ghost-like finish.
Practically a liquid fruit salad, this smells and tastes like orange, apple, cantaloupe and banana. The texture is smooth and rounded, rather than crisp. A little buttery flavor comes through on the finish.
Dark, mossy, rubbery blackberry aromas are solid. In the mouth, this is punishing, with raw tannins that suggest grapeskins. Dark, chocolaty, savory, spicy flavors of blackberry and black plum finish toasty but bumpy, tannic and rubbery.
Smoke and custard notes accent scents of wet stone and citrus, while the palate delivers white peach, lime and vanilla flavors. This is plump and full in the mouth, yet still finishes with mouthwatering precision.
Flinty and austere, this is an elegant white wine crafted from 100% Musque clone, dancing in pear and grapefruit. The layered texture impressively stands out, riding the wave between creamy and lemony crisp with precision, opening the door for the wine to finish refreshingly.
Black and dense in yeasty baked bread and olive, this is a Cabernet-heavy wine with small amounts of Merlot and Petit Verdot. Black licorice, plum and tobacco play against each other within the thick, concentrated texture, tied up nicely by a long, tobacco-stained finish.
The Goldert Grand Cru with its stone and chalk soil gives powerful wines. That's the case here with this dense, tense bottling. The spice is intense, rich and concentrated. A touch of acidity keeps everything in check. Drink from 2017.
Clos Windsbuhl in Hunawihr is the northernmost of Zind-Humbrecht's collection of vineyards. In 2012, it has produced an impressive wine that has all the right spice of Pinot Gris along with acidity and a fresh edge. That gives this rich wine a great lift, with a waft of pear to go with the yellow-fruit flavors. Drink from 2016.
Rich and full-bodied, this displays much of the complexity of a Grand Cru wine. It also has a strongly fruity character that bursts from the glass. Schoenenbourg is one of the vineyards surrounding the picture-book village of Riquewihr. Age the wine and drink from 2017.
This elegant, structured red opens with a potpourri of perfumed berry, wild flower and a whiff of cake spice. The juicy palate doles out black cherry, wild strawberry, cinnamon, star anise and menthol alongside firm but fine-grained tannins. Drink 2017–2022.
This big but well-behaved wine brings out the pure deliciousness of the grapes. It smells perfectly ripe without being sweet or jammy, feels very elegant and rich, and tastes like blackberry-boysenberry juice. It's just tannic enough for balance, and the polished fruitiness continues through the finish.
This rich Gewurztraminer reflects the chalk soil of this prized grand cru. It gives a structured, firm wine, close to dry with spice and pepper flavors as well as a strongly mineral character. It needs proper aging, so drink from 2018.
Deep ruby to the eye, this blend of 70% Cabernet Sauvignon, 25% Merlot and 5% Petit Verdot has a bouquet of coffee and black currant preserves. It offers a frankly gorgeous interplay between fruit and cool herbal flavors, with black cherry joined on the palate by licorice, eucalyptus, butterscotch and flint. The drawn-out finish offers a surprisingly bright burst that inspires taking the next sip.
Ginger and spice dominate this mineral-textured wine. It is ripe, fragrant and with good freshness. Acidity balances the medium-dry, honeyed character, giving lilt to the aftertaste. Drink this single-vineyard wine from 2017.
This is winemaker Rob Folin's side project, sourcing grapes from the excellent Utopia Vineyard in the heart of the Willamette Valley. It captures the elegance, precision and depth of that specific location. Toasty, spicy and focused, it's structured around bright, deep raspberry and Bing cherry fruit. The lush baking spices are the perfect frame.
Aromas of blackberries are set against freshly milled cedar, dried flowers, chopped herbs and a bit of iron. Oregano and thyme lead the palate, with slightly sour boysenberry fruit as well as espresso, dark chocolate and camphor, leaning on herbs more than ripe fruit.
It's old-gold color says it all. This luscious, liquorous wine has a tangy edge to go alongside the acidity, the raisin fruits and flavors of long wood aging. It's not so much fresh as still very alive and poised. Drink now.
Stout aromas of ripe blackberry and cassis come with mocha and dry spice notes on the nose of this Malbec-Cabernet Sauvignon blend. A firm mouthfeel with grinding tannins is a good set up to oaky, ripe berry flavors accented by wood grain, cocoa and cinnamon notes. Plenty of oak graces a long, ripe, solid finish. Drink through 2018.
This tastes dry, though the 12.5 g/L residual sugar does round off the mouthfeel. Powerful, juicy fruit flavors of lemon pith, orange peel, pink grapefruit and white peach abound, with a touch of honey in the finish. Two-thirds was sourced from the excellent Hyland Vineyard.
This is a power-packed blend of 72% Syrah, 15% Grenache, 8% Petite Sirah and 5% Mourvèdre, with smoky aromas of game, bacon fat, pressed blackberry, pepper and baking spices. The palate is oak-driven, with flavors of smoked meats in boysenberry sauce, but the tannins are so strong that this needs until at least 2018 for the components to shine properly.
From this particular block all the vines are the Pommard clone, which keeps it distinctive from the other Shea cuvées. Smooth, silky, slightly smoky and showing a supple mouthfeel, this mixes brambly berry, nougat and caramel notes, with a finishing flourish of toasted hazelnuts.
Briary berry, tobacco, hickory and spice flavors dominate the nose on this smoky-smelling modern Rioja. This vintage of Amancio, one of Sierra Cantabria's flashiest small-volume wines, is round, meaty and expansive in feel, with oaky flavors of blackberry and bacon. A grabby, spongy, wide finish is savory and oaky in flavor. Give this until 2016, then drink through 2022.
Delicate, attractive aromas of chamomile, pear and brimstone lead the nose on this graceful wine. The linear palate delivers green apple, juicy pear, savory herb and mineral alongside fresh acidity. It's linear, vertical and elegant. Hold for complexity. Drink 2015–2020.
This elegant, full-bodied red opens with a lovely fragrance of red berry and violet. The juicy palate doles out crushed wild cherry, mocha, grilled sage and cake spice alongside firm, polished tannins and fresh acidity. Drink 2015–2025.
Deep brick-red in color, this wine leads with aromas of stewed black fruits, petrol and green pepper. Flavors of cherry preserves, smoked meat, vanilla and a pop of tart cherry make their way across the palate, encased in silky tannins. The finish is simultaneously cool and bright.
The grapes for this limited-production wine come from the outstanding Alloro vineyard. The texture and complexity are immediately apparent. Mouthcoating plum and cherry fruit combines with lively citrus, toasty oak and a rich chocolate note. Drink now or put some away for a few years, but don't miss this one.
Sweet and extra ripe, this pushes the peach and apricot fruit to a rich and focused center, and keeps the impact of new French oak at just 20%. Which is plenty, adding just enough sweet and toasty vanilla to the extended, rich finish.
Orange blossoms and lemon zest exhilarate in this dry, richly concentrated Riesling. It's medium bodied in style and filigreed in texture, filling the mouth with layers of stone fruit and citrus. Vibrant acidity shimmers on the finish.
Still remarkably fresh, this polished, structured wine is loaded with finesse, delivering layers of dark cherry, crushed raspberry, Mediterranean herb, tobacco and licorice sensations. Velvety tannins provide framework for the juicy palate.
Oaky lead aromas fold in can't-miss spicy scents of clove, allspice and cinnamon. The palate on this blend of Malbec, Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot is dense but light on its feet. Flavors of oaky raspberry, cassis and cocoa powder finish toasty, rooty and with a fine feel. Drink through 2019.
At almost 16 years old, this auslese exhibits the delicate transition Riesling makes from fruit to earth. Smoke, dusty minerals, saffron and caramel dominate the palate. Texturally, it seems layered with silk and astringency. On the finish, racy acidity lifts and revitalizes.
Sourced from 30-year-old vines, this off-dry wine is finished at 30 g/L residual sugar. The layered, textural, dense tropical fruit, dry extract and tart, tangy acidity all work in concert to fill the palate with a vibrant, fresh and long-lasting cascade of bright flavors.
All you want a top-notch Cabernet to be, from its bold intensity, ample weight and rich texture, to the textbook notes of cassis, cedar and vanilla. While approachable now, it should age gracefully though 2025.
A certain creamy nuttiness is suggested on the nose. The sunniness of 2015 is expressed by a generous mirabelle ripeness. The body still is very slight and subtle and all about a graceful texture. There's a lovely touch of lemon freshness on the finish.
This blend of 48% Counoise, 38% Mourvèdre and 14% Grenache shows gravel, dried cherry, hibiscus and charred wood scents on the lively, fresh nose. Cooked cherry notes are dusted with vanilla and clove on the palate, where tart plum skin flavors the tannic backbone, and a smoky bacon fat finish makes it all the more delicious.
On the nose, luscious peach notes are slightly muddied by earthier notes. On the palate, generous sweetness boosts all the fruit flavors to an intense lusciousness. There is balance in the form of lemony freshness and a lovely tangy texture. This is momentarily quite intense.
In its second vintage, this wine is light and spicy, clearly made to be enjoyed with food. A collaborative effort between winemaker Guy Davis and proprietor/grapegrower and chef Guy Fieri, it shines in subtly toasty oak, cinnamon and dark cherry flavors, with a lingering lushness on the finish.
This wine has rich blueberry aromas, a softly tannic texture and and black currant flavors that open more with each sip. Concentrated and full in body, it's a luxurious-feeling and abundantly flavored wine that lingers long on the palate.
Plush blackberry, fennel, mocha, char and peppercorn aromas show on the nose of this bottling from longtime friends Paul Quinn and James Schreiner. Dried plum skin, cherry and elderberry flavors show on the palate, which is layered with tannins and turns savory with charred beef, charcoal and tobacco flavors.
Sweet cedar aromas kick off this attention-grabbing bottling, with elderberry and black plum scents combining for an Old World feel in which the structure can be sensed on sniff alone. Wood and graphite notes pop on the palate, where a loamy riverstone minerality courses through black currant flavors, finishing on chocolate cake.
Roasted beef and bacon fat scents meet with maple, char, Concord grape and blueberry on the nose of this hearty bottling from a winery recently acquired by O'Neill Vintners. Its tannins are deep and firm but welcoming, providing the framework for black currant, blueberry, charred beef and rosemary flavors.
Stewed black plum and tangy black cherry fruit meet baking spice and cola on the nose of this bottling from Lompoc-based Brian Loring. The palate is tangy with black cherry and cranberry, with a touch of herbs and forest floor.
This substantial dry wine made from dry-farmed vines planted in 1980 has tempting jammy aromas and ripe and satisfying fruit flavors matched by a solid backing of fine-grained tannins and acidity. It has the appetizing bite and firm texture that will make it mouthwatering at dinner.
This bottling, which used 40% whole clusters and 20% new French oak, shows delicate red cherry and dark cranberry fruit, with gingerbread spice and hibiscus on the layered nose. The palate is full of tangy red plum and cranberry flavors, with touches of licorice, sage and thyme.
Light in color, this bottling from a famous vineyard shows red cherry, crushed clove and woody herb notes on a nose that's both sanguine and sharp with anise spice. The palate is lively and spicy, with energetic white sage and bright red fruit leading into a long-lasting, menthol-laced finish.
Underbrush, oak, wild berry, herb and balsamic notes lead the nose of this Brunello. Tightly wound, fine-grained tannins frame cranberry, red cherry, orange zest and white pepper flavors on the palate. A hint of star anise signals the close. Drink 2020–2027.
This Southern Hemisphere adventure from an Austrian winemaking family can turn out some interesting wines. In this case, it's a medium-bodied wine that's firm yet silky in feel, marrying cassis and tobacco leaf with subtle, balanced oak.
Refined flavors of lime, grapefruit, pineapple, citrus skin and stone combine in a clean crisp delightful wine. The naturally bright and refreshing acidity puts a pleasant pucker into the finish, and will have you reaching quickly for that next glass.
Toil spearheads an ambitious Oregon project for Chris Figgins (Leonetti Cellar and the Figgins Family). A new vineyard is being developed in the Chehalem Mountains; meanwhile grapes are sourced from Ribbon Ridge and the Eola-Amity Hills. This svelte generous wine still has some baby fat from barrel aging in 30% new French oak. Cherry, cola and toasty oak flavors come together with a touch of underbrush. It's best to give this another year or two of bottle age. Drink it 2020 to 2026.
This opens with subdued, earthy aromas suggesting used leather, grilled sage, Mediterranean scrub and mature berry. On the hearty, monolithic palate, a pronounced licorice note and alcoholic warmth underscore the mature black cherry and clove flavors. Assertive tannins provide a tight framework. Drink 2020–2027.
The first aromas that emerge from this blend of Bordeaux varieties with a “California twist” are dried chaparral herb, espresso, black currant and pepper. Cocoa flavors are prominent on the palate, with tangy cranberry, pomegranate and richer dried black cherry fruit.
This blend of 75% Grenache, 15% Syrah and 10% Mourvèdre offers intriguing cherry candy, rhubarb and hibiscus scents, with touches of exotic cinnamon and woodsmoke. Caramel and baked cherry flavors mark the cherry pie-like palate, dusted with star anise and clove over a solidly tannic frame.
This is a tight and restrained wine from an extreme coastal vineyard behind Cambria. On the nose, it shows touches of raspberry and pomegranate along with non-fruit notes of lavender, dried rose and cinnamon stick. The palate is mineral-driven, with gravel, loam and pencil lead accented by sagebrush, toast and cedar flavors.
This affordable wine offers tangy oak and tannin along with vibrant red fruit. Leather and juicy black plum add to its soft layers of flavor.
From a site near Annapolis, this wine shows a preponderance of dark grape and cherry flavor interwoven with cinnamon and black peppercorn. Light-bodied and ethereally layered, it has touches of rustic earthiness and leather.
Produced from a single clone—Dijon 777—this late release has a hint of leather around candied cherry fruit, mixed with sweetened cranberry. It's concentrated and rounded off, with brown spice highlights. Drink now to 2020.
This wine's distinctive nose lays a foundation of underripe raspberry fruit and tops it with sesame, sandalwood and wild thyme aromas. There is significant woody character to the palate, including pine, oak and juniper, all set against bright red fruit.
Rose petal, baked strawberry, sarsaparilla and baking spice aromas show strongly on the indulgent nose of this bottling. It's floral, full-bodied and multi-layered on the palate, with baked red cherry and cranberry flavors swathed in cinnamon, hibiscus and anise spice.
This block selection strikes a good balance between forward fruit, spicy barrel, tangy acids and a textural, lingering finish. It's medium bodied and well balanced, with a finish that leaves an impression of astringent tannins.
This lush, toasty, vividly fruity wine can't miss with a wide variety of seafood, pasta and poultry dishes. There's plenty of acid under full-bodied apple and melon and peach fruit. The acids carry a nice touch of citrus and that clean fresh fruit continues on through a medium-long finish.
One of Saintsbury's veteran winemakers, Mr. Knuttel displays his love and understanding of the variety with this sexy, spicy single-vineyard wine. Baked cherry and a hint of smoke ride a soft, medium-bodied wave of strawberry flavor with fresh acidity.
This jumps up and grabs you by the nose immediately, with bright scents of fresh raspberries and highlights of coffee grounds. A lively wine, with immaculate fruit, the concentrated flavors blend strawberries and raspberries, with supporting acids and just a nice touch of barrel flavors.
Medium-bodied, crisp and firmly tannic, this Cabernet still needs a few years to come into full bloom. Cassis, leather and vanilla notes merge together on the finish, joined by dusty tannins. Cellar until 2020.
Honeysuckle, exotic fruit and herbaceous notes carry over to the racy palate, where they're joined by grapefruit, pineapple and green melon flavors. An almond note closes the crisp finish.
Orchard fruit, citrus and almond aromas follow through to the palate. Fresh acidity enlivens the yellow apple and nectarine flavors while a hint of Mediterranean herb closes the finish.
High-toned aromas of black fruit, barrel spice and herb lead to a wound up palate backed by lightly grainy tannins. It's almost four years old, but still seems to need time to settle in. Best after 2020.
This pink-colored wine comes from the Domaine owned by the Rabarin family for over 150 years. It is deliciously crisp, bright with acidity and with a tannic edge that comes from the Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend. This is a refreshing bright wine that is ready to drink.
This vintage is light in color with perfumed fruit and attractive red currant and orange fruit. It is floral, touched by raspberries as well as a strong streak of acidity. This refreshing wine is ready to drink.
This is a new grape for the Riboli family's brand, and they've managed to present it with enticing and rounded nectarine and melon aromas. There is a grippy texture to the palate, which serves as a good foil for its tropical ripeness. A solid first effort.
This wine is half Funk Estate Vineyard Syrah, with the rest McClellan Estate Cabernet Sauvignon. The two varieties somewhat seem to cancel each other out initially, with aromas of smoked meat, cherry, herb and earth that don't seem fully resolved. The palate brings a smooth, elegant styling to the red and blue-fruit flavors. There's plenty of interest, but it doesn't all entirely come together at present.
A restrained nose with the merest hint of pepper leads into a cherry-fruited, taut, spicy palate. The red and black cherry fruit is ripe and almost fleshy, held upright with freshness. This is honest and juicy, with the slightest, pleasant tannic grip.
This white Rhône blend places Grenache Blanc at center stage, with Marsanne, Picpoul Blanc and Viognier playing supporting roles. It's fresh and engaging on the nose, suggesting caramelized pear, apple blossom and chalk. Laser-sharp acidity and chalky minerality balance bold lime custard and apple skin flavors.
A funky, earthy hint blends with ripe pear notes on the nose of this wine. Its dry, light palate presents in a far fruitier, more fluid vein. There's a hint of fleshy, pleasantly bitter fruit on the finish.
The year 2014 was a fine vintage for reserve-level wines, and this one brings concentrated cherry-berry fruit into a generous midpalate. Those big forward fruit flavors wrap through the finish, which is lightly touched, though not seriously impacted, with a glue-like note.
Pear and honeydew melon aromas lift out of the glass. On the fresh, tangy palate, a saline vein of minerality underscores white peach, yellow apple and juicy citrus flavors.
Banana, honeydew melon and honeysuckle aromas lead the way while the generous palate doles out pineapple and white peach. A candied nectarine note backs up the fruity flavors, alongside tangy acidity.
This opens with tropical fruit and white flower fragrance while the palate offers honeydew melon, ripe pear and citrus flavors. A hint of white almond leaves a pleasant bitter finish.
This shimmering barrel-fermented blend of 75% Viura and 25% Tempranillo Blanco opens with stable aromas of apple, butter and fresh corn. An elegant fairly light palate delivers a mix of dry oak, nectarine, peach and apple flavors. This is lithe and comfortable on the finish, with modest but noticeable residual oak.
The fruitiness of fresh, green Conference pears fills the nose of this wine. Its palate is more subdued, with streamlined, citrus freshness, compact body and a dry, refreshing finish.
From one of the old Provence estates, this is a concentrated herbal wine. It has plenty of spice as well as full red fruits and balanced acidity. This is a fine wine, packed with taste. Drink now.
This wine, named after a swarm of bees, comes from a small region in the center of the larger Côtes de Provence. From high-altitude vineyards in a state park, it is cool while keeping plenty of richness. The acidity and the red-currant fruits dominate this attractive, ready-to-drink wine.
This blend of 87% Grenache and 13% Syrah shows red apple, deep strawberry and yeast touches on the fresh and lively nose. It hits the palate with brilliant, tactile energy, delivering rounded red fruit and bubblegum flavors that make it a certain summertime crowd pleaser.
Tangy yellow grapefruit aromas meet broad Gala apple and almond scents in this bottling from veteran winemaker Norman Beko. The palate is light in texture but overflows with marshmallow, lemon and sea salt flavors.
Made entirely from Syrah, this offers earthy black-skinned fruit, tilled soil and leather aromas. The round, friendly palate delivers blackberry jam, black plum and white pepper flavors, alongside smooth tannins.
It is the 20% Gros Manseng in the blend that makes this wine. It gives it an extra dimension, a touch of honey and hints of apricots. It is an attractive contrast to the herbal character from the Colombard and Ugni Blanc. This a delicious wine, still young and ready to go from the end of 2017.
For a wine made from young-vine fruit, this is reasonably concentrated and structured. Ample tannins support black-cherry and mocha flavors, then finish long and dusty in texture.
Plum, tomato and spice aromas turn more floral with airing. This is a dry pinching tannic Malbec with herbal plum and cherry flavors that are also peculiarly salty. A tannic dry sturdy finish offers plenty to chew on. Drink through 2022.
This is not a cookie-cutter Cava. It opens with apple juice aromas along with yeast and white-bread scents. In the mouth, this feels a bit bready and soft. Yeasty flavors of papaya, green banana and melon see a white-bread note return on the finish. This is 100% Xarello (Pansa Blanca).
Ripe yet restrained on the nose, offering fig and guava. On the palate, those flavors turn citrusy, picking up a hint of bitter pith on the finish.
Dry, well-balanced and not heavy-handed, this medium-bodied wine has a firm, lightly grippy texture and tasty fruit flavors. Cinnamon and nutmeg accents meld with just-ripe black cherry and black plum on the palate and echo into the finish.
High-toned acidity lends verve to delicate raspberry and white grapefruit flavors here. It's not deeply concentrated but lavishly textured with a cutting, mineral finish. Drink now.
Blended from several Central Otago subregions, this is a supple, immediately drinkable wine. Oak spice and vanilla notes mark the nose, while the midpalate fills in with crisp red fruit reminiscent of cranberries. It's medium bodied, with a silky texture that lingers on the finish. Drink now–2022.
Don't be fooled by the pale, almost white, color. This is a spicy herbal wine that comes from a selection of the estate's best vineyards. It has a fine cut of acidity to keep it crisp. It is juicy and packed with fruit, immediately attractive. The aftertaste with its zesty tang is refreshing. Drink now.
Full bodied and brimming in vanilla and ripe peach, this white also offers big flavors of grass and lime zest, coming down in the middle in terms of acidity. Fermented in stainless steel, it's fresh and fruity, with a creaminess to the finish.
Bramble and herb notes are prominent on the nose, but subside into succulent white grapefruit and tangerine on the palate of this cheerful off-dry Riesling. Sunny acidity adds to its approachable, easygoing feel. Drink now.
Sharp acidity underscores light, quite tart cranberry fruit. This has herbal notes in abundance, and an earthy note to the tannins. But it all comes together with a clean, polished finish.
The wine has a fat fruity texture along with acidity and plenty of tannins. It is austere in character, very dry and dense and with a serious intent. There is a juicy aftertaste that is more attractive and has promise for the future.
Green-apple and honeyed aromas are more simple and anonymous than special. This varietal white Grenache has a shearing linear acidic palate that fosters tart flavors of tangerine and lemon peel. A stony drawn finish is crisp and zesty.
Earthy plum and stalky berry aromas are bolstered by bold oak aromas. This feels good and healthy, with spicy oaky flavors that are dry lactic and push the wine's fruit to the background. A woody spicy, minty finish ends this. Drink through 2017.
Cedar and vanilla notes mark the nose of this wine, which boasts ample weight, modest fruit and a soft, open-knit texture. It's appealing for its oaky charm.
This wine from one of Anderson Valley's pioneers has a lighter-than-usual color and plenty of red cherry, raspberry and turned earth aromas. It offers low-level fruit flavors and good balance of acidity versus ripeness.
Aromas of oak, toast, coconut and dark berry lead the nose and carry over to the bracing palate along with white pepper and oak-driven spice. Firm, extremely astringent tannins give this a bracing finish. Drink after 2018.
Luscious honeyed tangerine and yellow peach notes are offset by a streak of minerality in this easy, off-dry Riesling. It's delicate in body yet juicy and refreshing. Drink now.
Flirty and floral, this sunny off-dry Pinot Noir rosé (blended with a touch of Dornfelder) offers forward fruitiness in an elegant frame. With a kiss of strawberry and cherry flavors, it's an accessible, yet satisfying quaffer.
Raspberry and cherry aromas are mild while not stirring much excitement. This feels a bit raw and tannic, but it's got enough body to hold up. Berry and plum flavors finish with hints of spice and chocolate.
Aromas of oak, toast, espresso, exotic spice, spirits, dried black cherry and coconut carry over to the warm palate. Showing the heat of the vintage, the fruit is already drying up while bracing tannins provide the framework.
Berry aromas are a bit stalky, leathery and roasted. This Malbec is lively on the palate, with energy and good balance. A creamy resiny flavor profile is oaky and a touch hot.
Aromas of toast, oak, menthol and mint lead the nose. The palate shows raw red berry and dried sage alongside grainy tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish.
Leathery, baked aromas of cheesy oak and red berry fruits are a bit lacking in pop but are reflective of typical Rioja Crianza. A full grabby palate shows earthy, buttery flavors of baked stalky berry fruits and oak. A grabby chunky finish wraps this up.
This smells rubbery, with oaky spice, but airing allows it to expand across a lively palate. Herbal, spicy red-berry flavors are strongest in the midpalate, while peppery flavors, rubbery tannins and scratchiness define the finish.
A direct blast of reedy cherry and cassis aromas leads to rough-charging clampy palate with high acidity and hard tannins. This tastes of rooty plum supported by bold acidity, while spice, tomato and a dusting of brown sugar are the closing flavors.
Stalky, soupy berry aromas come up shy on elegance. This feels clampy and hard with rocky tannins. Standard berry fruit flavors are overshadowed by gritty stalky blackened accents, while the finish is grating and uncushioned but long.
Brushy aromas of field herbs blend with scents of oaky vanilla, plastic and stalky berry fruits. This feels saturated and rubbery. A salty flavor profile holds onto the bouquet's stalky character, while the finishing flavors are peppery and herbal, with a hint of sweet plastic derived from oak.
Earthy slightly grassy infusions work their way onto a hot energetic bouquet. This feels racy, drawing and a bit clampy, while woody spicy flavors of rubbery berry fruits finish bold and hot like the beginning.
This is a fresh, open and very accessible wine. Crisp acidity cuts through the green apple flavors and tangy, mineral texture. With juicy fruitiness, it is a light wine that is ready to drink.
This simple, fruity and rounded wine has light acidity, apricot and pear flavors and a tang of orange zest. It is full, fruity and ready to drink.
A blossomy, perfumed edge lends lift and vibe to earthier notes of pressed apple and pear in this light-footed medium-sweet Riesling. It's racy and sharp in mouthfeel with a finish that's brisk and bright.
Despite showing a yellow color and gritty oiliness on the nose, this feels round and complete, with tropical flavors of mango, papaya and green melon. Everything about this is mild, inoffensive and tropical. Drink now before it starts to fade.
The wine is young, still more structure than fruit. It has firm tannins as well as juicy blackberry fruits. A blend of Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon and Touriga Nacional, it is likely to age for a few months, so drink from the end of 2016.
Herbaceous, lemony and a touch green, this brisk light-bodied wine is made from Elbling, one of the Mosel's little-known other grapes. Dry on the palate, it's moderately concentrated with flavors of freshly-pressed apples and pear.
Warm and full-bodied, this opens with aromas of espresso, fig, dried berry, toasted oak and clove. The dense palate offers raisin, oak, roasted coffee bean and spearmint alongside round tannins. You'll also notice the heat of evident alcohol.
Tangy and mineral, this is a crisp apple- and citrus-driven wine, full of fruitiness while also having a tight texture. Its acidity just adds to the generally ripe character of the wine. Drink now.
This is typical, textbook Torrontés with tropical aromas of lime and orange peel. Citrusy acidity creates a refreshing palate feel, while tangerine, lime and lychee flavors conclude in a cleansing, non-oily fashion.
Made from Sangiovese with 5% Cabernet Sauvignon, this straightforward wine conveys aromas of stewed prunes, plum and black spices. The palate offers fleshy black cherry and black pepper alongside soft, round tannins. Enjoy soon.
With brisk acidity, a bone-dry finish and some dusty tannins, this is an interesting Pinot Noir, with a silky texture and cherry jam, pomegranate and cranberry flavors that are ready to drink now.
There's zero doubt about this Chardonnay's ripeness. The nose is warm, honeyed and a bit leaden. Round in the mouth, it offers tropical flavors of orange and nectarine. On the finish, a buttery note blends with residual citrus fruit.
This Syrah, Grenache and Mourvèdre blend shows hot alcohol and superripe flavors of blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate and raisins. It's a big, rich, thick wine that sticks to the gums, almost syrupy, but fully dry. Decant it and drink with stews, casseroles, barbecue.
Made entirely with Sangiovese, this earthy wine leads off with aromas of red berries and wet soil. The juicy palate delivers wild cherry lightly accented with notes of white pepper alongside smooth tannins and fresh acidity. It's an ideal match with a variety of dishes, including pizza. Enjoy soon.
With firm tannins, acidity and cool-climate notes of grilled meat and black pepper riding high over the blackberries and oak, this Syrah would be ageable, if it were just a bit richer. Give it a few hours to air and drink it now.
Deeply colored, it offers ripe berry and plum aromas in front of a tangy, juicy, somewhat clipped-feeling palate. Flavors of plum and raspberry come across chunky, while juicy acidity adds brightness but also roughness to the finish.
With delicate aromas of yellow flowers and notes of exotic fruit, this is a classic, bright Soave. The juicy palate offers subtle peach, apples and honeydew melon and a hint of almond alongside fresh acidity. Sip as an apéritif or pair with light first courses and appetizers.
Sourced from a single vineyard, this spent 17 months in French oak, 38% new. It's light and spicy, with pleasant fruit flavors of apple and pear.
Here's a zesty wine with attractive aromas of freshly picked roses, lychee and mineral. The palate offers juicy yellow grapefruit accented by spicy notes of white pepper and clove that add depth.
Rich, smooth and generous, this is a ripe wine yet with a solid structure of tannins. Dark chocolate and spice are paired with the full black fruits and full-bodied character. It should be aged until 2015.
A ripe and juicy wine, it's full of blackberry jelly flavors. The tannins are cushioned by the plump fruit texture and given a lift by acidity. The result is a wine that is developing quickly, and will be ready to drink by 2016.
With firm tannins and a solid texture, this rich wine has delicious juicy black fruits and dry tannins. It's delicious now, but it will also improve and evolve with time. Drink from 2016.
This estate-grown Pinot Gris is all about ripe, round, forward fruit. A juicy mix of apple and pear hits home, with just a hint of cinnamon. A good sipping wine.
The dryness and low alcohol are praiseworthy, but more challenging are hard tannins and biting acidity. With blackberry and sweet green-herb flavors, it's the opposite of today's ripe cult style, but by no means unattractive.
Primary fruit flavors of cranberry are at the core here, with medium concentration and acidity. Flavors of leaf and stem come into play and turn the finish slightly bitter. Give this until 2015.
Perhaps because of the cold vintage, the wine is unsatsifyingly dry, tannic and acidic, showing only hints of sour cherry candy, cola and green mint tea. Not an ager, so drink up.
There's an oddly sweet-ashy aroma and taste to this Cabernet Sauvignon-based blend. It comes from the oak, which overpowers the underlying blackberry, cherry and currant fruit flavors.
This straightforward wine is bone dry and brisk in acidity. The pink grapefruit and Meyer lemon citrus flavors are enriched with riper notes of papayas. But there's also a strong streak of tart green gooseberries.
A medium-bodied wine, it delivers sensations of Alpine wild flowers and Granny Smith apple. The round palate is brightened by fresh acidity but you'll also feel the warmth of evident alcohol.
Lots of oaky flavors mark this dry wine. Buttered toast, brown butter and vanilla flavors dominate the underlying peach, pear, citrus and mango flavors.
The aroma shows old wood flavors that don't work. On the palate, the wood also gives some bitterness that needs to disappear to bring out the best of the red fruits. It's probably always going to be on the hard side.
A blend of Sangiovese and 20% Canaiolo, it conveys spicy aromas of black pepper, spearmint and toast. The palate delivers black berry and cherry alongside bright acidity. Simple but well-made, it would pair well with hearty pasta dishes.
Dull and dusty on the nose, this burly Zin opens up in the glass, offering a slight sweetness of blackberry and vanilla amid its soft texture and structure.
With a delicate, silky mouthfeel and bright acidity, this wine fulfils Pinot's basic requirements. It has raspberry, persimmon and mushroom flavors, and also is quite tannic. Drink now, after decanting it for a while.
Aromas include subtle yellow apple, pear, lemon zest and a hint of peach. Fresh acidity gives it a clean finish.
This is pure fruitiness, a wine packed with spice, berry fruits and soft, open tannins. It is a great barbecue-style wine, ripe, with good acidity and a bright, crisp aftertaste. Drink now.
Clean and tart in lemon flavor, it has a bright streak of acidity throughout. Refreshing, it'll work well as an apéritif, a hint of pear lingering on the soft palate and finish.
This very rich, wood-aged wine is dense and powerful. The power takes away from the natural balance of a Bordeaux, giving dark tannins that dominate. Spice from the wood is also a strong element. It will round out, but will remain very ripe.
While the wine does have some firm tannins, it also bears rich black fruits that envelop and cushion the dry core. They give the wine weight, ripe fruitiness and jammy red berry flavors. It would be worth aging until 2016, but can be drunk now.
From vines owned by the Chanson family, this is a wonderfully rich wine, deliciously fruity at the same time. Apple and citrus as well as richer apricots come through powerfully. It's structured with a sense of opulence, richness that also has a tight texture. It needs to age; drink from 2019.
Rounded and rich, it is full of dark fruits and red cherries that combine with firm tannins and great acidity. This comes from a parcel of the Corton Rognets Grand Cru that unusually has been given the Faiveley name. Drink from 2020.
This is the big one, one of the most treasured white wine vineyards in the world. And the wine is magnificent, balanced with restrained power and style. Yellow fruits are shot through with acidity that conveys a nervy texture and an intense, concentrated character. This needs many years; don't drink before 2020.
Aromas of spiced berry, coffee and balsam wood start slow and pick up intensity. This is powerful but focused from front to back, with hard but honest tannins that will soften with time. Pure, potent flavors of cherry, berry and chocolate come with tons of spicy, peppery oak and all sorts of textural depth. Drink from 2015–2028.
A small, acre-sized parcel gives a wine that has both great structure and finesse. It retains the natural fruitiness of the vintage as well as a more defined texture. Concentration and densely ripe fruit are already finely integrated with the hints of wood. The wine speaks of long aging potential; don't drink before 2019.
This special wine begins with stunning aromas of cedar, roasted meat and ripe raspberries, then adds savory notes of espresso and black olives to create a harmonious blend of fruity and savory elements. It's full bodied yet supple, with a long, fruit-filled finish. Already enjoyable, it should age well for at least 10 years.
Remarkably inky in color for a Grenache-based blend, it features strong aromas of cedar, meat and deeply purple fruit. The soft, rich mouthfeel coats the palate like a luxurious lacquer, and features flavors of blackberry jam, macerated cherry and vanilla-spiced plums. The blend of florals, herbals, fruit and oak-driven tannins is masterful. Drink now by itself or with a peppercorn-crusted filet mignon.
Va Piano has introduced a stellar series of single-vineyard Syrahs. But if you had to pick just one, it would have to be this massive, beautifully structured bottle from Les Collines vineyard. Concentrated boysenberry fruit leads into a firm, sleek, subtle wine with even deeper flavors of black cherry, chocolate, espresso and baking spices.
Hailing from a warm region and a warm vintage, this is displaying maximum ripeness on the nose via raisin, prune, blackberry and fig aromas. In the mouth, this is loamy, chewy, a mile deep and rich as Bill Gates. Concentrated black cherry, blackberry, cassis, chocolate and mocha flavors conclude with baked notes, licorice and tobacco. So smooth, yet bullish. Drink through 2022.
From the cool east face of the vineyard, this is crisp and tight, less opulent than some Corton-Charlemagne. It makes up in its rich structure, weight and tropical fruit flavors that are sliced by acidity. There is some kerosene along with these exotic fruits, and the wine does need to age. Drink from 2018.
This dark, brooding wine is still tight and closed. It's powerful and concentrated, with gripping tannins as well as delicious black fruits. It's solid, chunky and very firm while retaining the generous fruitiness of the vintage. Don't drink before 2020.
Here's a gorgeous, delicious wine that's all about sheer elegance. It's loaded with alluring blue flower, creamy wild cherry and black raspberry sensations accented by notes of carob, clove and white pepper. This is impeccably balanced, with fresh acidity, silky, smooth tannins and a long, lingering finish. It already boasts great depth and complexity, but will continue to evolve for years.
This is richly powerful, packed with dark plum fruits and solid, concentrated tannins. At this stage, it is closed, a potential powerhouse of firm fruits and structure. It has weight, the fruit and the firm texture all promising long-term aging. Drink from 2020.
Power and concentration exude from this wine. Very structured, very firm, it has solid tannins backed up by powerful black, juicy fruits. Blackberry flavors are still developing in this seriously ageworthy wine. Drink from 2020.
Rich and full-bodied, the flavors of quince and pear are balanced by great acidity. It is a big, powerful wine that, with its tight fruit and steely background, promises long aging. The tropical fruits also need several years to show strongly. Drink from 2018.
From vines just below the line of Grand Cru vineyards, this is a big and powerful expression of Pinot Noir. It is dense with firm tannins that are embedded in the ripe black fruits. It's a complex wine, serious while still fruity, and needing to age. Drink from  2018.
Deep berry aromas blend with sweet, creamy, spicy oak notes on the nose of this cellar-worthy bruiser, which is live-wire, energetic and holding a lot in reserve. A full allotment of oak-driven flavors include coffee, mocha, pepper, baked berry and chocolate. On the finish, it's huge and tastes of toast, medicinal berry and chocolate-drenched cherries. Drink from 2015–2025.
Made from a rare and nearly extinct grape variety of the same name, Sirica opens with intense aromas of blackberry, leather, violets, underbrush and Mediterranean herbs. The delicious palate doles out mature black cherry, blueberry, black pepper, clove and grilled sage alongside velvety tannins and fresh acidity. It's beautifully balanced and will continue to evolve well over the next decade.
This structured and delicious wine opens with aromas of tilled earth, blue flower and mature black fruit. The savory, juicy palate delivers notes of ripe plum, blackberry, Mediterranean herbs and mineral, all supported by assertive tannins. Drink 2015–2024.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, The Wanted is sourced from the Stillwater Creek and Stonetree vineyards. This textural, Cab-on-Cab creation is loaded with fig, plum, cherry and cassis fruit, highlights of cedar and tobacco, and supple, rich, ripe tannins. The wine is showing beautifully, but can only get even better with more age.
Inky red-purple in color and thick, this is a powerfully impressive Cabernet from the mighty Monte Rosso Vineyard. It's rich in spicy cinnamon, deep, dark plum and herbal tobacco. With the acidity in balance, it offers huge leather up front, dotted by undertones of cedar and pencil shavings. The finish is deftly accented by a seasoning of black pepper that lingers on the tongue.
This is its usual opulent, generous self, although in 2011 the fruit dominates. Ripe strawberry fruits are packed around sweet tannins and balanced with acidity. The wine is rich but is also powered with a firm structure. At the end, the wood aging shows. Drink from 2018.
This gripping, delicious wine seamlessly weaves together sensations of blue flower, exotic incense, ripe black cherry, mature plum, cracked pepper, mocha, clove and graphite. It's already delicious and well balanced, with bracing tannins and racy acidity, but give it time to soften and develop complexity. Drink 2019–2029.
A firmly structured wine, packed with fruit, acidity and complex tannins. It is powerful, dark and rich with great weight to balance the dry, smoky character from wood aging. It's impressive, concentrated with a touch of licorice and spice that  cuts through the acidity. Drink from 2020.
A wine with power and structure from one of the great Grand Crus of Burgundy. The wines have weight with generous red fruits and a great sense of depth,  and are very firm at the end. The vines are managed by Bernard Bouvier.
From the astonishing Klipsun Vineyard, this wine is rich in Red Mountain fruit, polished by winemaker Jerry Riener. Barrel-fermented in new French oak, this matches ripe, tropical fruit flavors to barrel-generated streaks of toast and caramel.
At this stage, this wine is closed, tight and mineral in character. As befits a great Perrières, it will be a serious, structured wine, textured and full of nervy, steely feeling, softening later into mature spice and toast. Drink from 2016.
This almost-pure Cabernet includes grapes sourced from Red Mountain and Horse Heaven Hills vineyards. The structure is gorgeous—massive yet precise—with a steely spine, great concentration and supple, mixed black fruits. A streak of lead pencil and a hint of toast contribute further complexity. Delicious already, this will reward cellaring through 2025.
Fans of Petit Verdot, which has almost attained cult status in Washington, will not want to miss this spectacular effort. Bright, chewy and muscular though it is, the tannins have been polished perfectly, and set off with 40% new oak, adding dark, smoky chocolate and espresso flavors. The acidity keeps up, underscoring tart berry fruit with some sweet green-tomato highlights.
For this sweet and jammy wine, the fruit is sourced from what is reputed to be the second-oldest planting of Syrah in Washington State. Hints of lilac lead into concentrated flavors of blueberry and boysenberry, along with lush barrel accents of mocha and chocolate. Tannins are smooth and silky, and the wine has the grip and substance to cellar well through at least 2024.
This lightly reductive wine has aromas of white peach, honeysuckle and the underside of a pineapple. It drinks medium sweet with tangerine flavors on the finish.
Briny tropical fruit and minerally aromas are most prominent on this white wine made from Jaen, a.k.a. Mencía. The palate has a leesy quality to it, but overall this feels standard, with mild melon and vanilla flavors.
Red-fruit aromas come with a hint of animal, something that's not uncommon to Bobal. An expansive palate is mildly abrasive, while chunky plum flavors end with heat and skins-driven bitterness
Lemon-lime aromas and flavors like meringue and butterscotch pudding turn this wine into a virtual dessert. It's not what many people would expect from this grape variety, but it's very tasty and rich.
Unctuous and made in a robust style, this wine offers a taste of caramel apple and hazelnut, with the illusion of sweetened oak amid a persistent finish.
Aromas of black-olive juice, animal hide and seashell fail to offer much fruit, even with swirling. A tough palate shows no clear point of entry, while herbal black-fruit flavors draw in rather than expand on the finish. This is a Syrah-led blend with Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Graciano, aka Tintilla de Rota. It hails from Cádiz.
This cool-vintage Garnacha smells earthy almost to the point of compost. A chunky, fairly heavy palate is bolstered by a shot of acidity, while rubbery dark-berry flavors finish with a reprise of earth character and moss.
This medium-bodied, pale pink rosé starts off with fruity notes of nectarine and melon, then adds hints of tangerine and crushed vitamin on the crisp finish. This is a nicely proportioned, modern-style rosé at a bargain price.
This is a clean, refreshing rosé from the generally higher altitudes of Luberon. In the modern, cold-fermented style, it's a bit confectionary in fruity esters—somewhat reminiscent of bubble gum or cotton candy—yet dry on the finish.
Red cherry meets with tar, wet herbs and cinnamon stick on the nose of this wine. Framed by a decent tannic structure, the palate boasts flavors of more red cherry and thyme.
If you want a truly herbal, grassy wine, look no further. This wine is tight, crisp and green with juicy green-plum acidity. It is forward, all fruit with just a tang of texture at the end. Drink now.
Produced from a blend of Pinot Noir and Gamay, this is a ripe, red fruit flavored wine. It has a fine balance between acidity and fruitiness, aided by a spicy character and a taut texture. Drink now.
Chocolate-covered cherry and plum surround a shock of stark acidity on this wine that has a round and soft palate. On the finish, a touch of astringency flirts with cedar.
This wine has some off aromas, seeming to show some oxygen exposure, which distracts from its notes of orange peel and spice. The palate is considerably better but struggles to make up the difference.
Ripe blackberry and cherry flavors have a slightly ruddy tone in this plush, full-bodied blend of Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon. Bold and juicy, its forward, approachable style is contrasted by slightly rustic tones of hay and grass.
From sandy soil above the banks of the Cher river, this wine has crisp citrus and clean, bright white berry and lime flavors. There's a refreshing herbal aftertaste. Drink now.
This wine is dark garnet to the eye, offering aromas of pomegranate, juniper berry and bell pepper. Overpowering tannins remain in the forefront of flavors of cooked cherry, pine needles, cassis and mint. While the tannins never feel to recede on the palate, there is a sensation of the faintest splash of brightness on the finish.
Chipped chalk, wet stone, lime spritz, nectarine flesh and grapefruit pith show on the fairly light nose of this easy-drinking wine. The palate shows an intriguing texture, with apple and pear skins that evolve toward fleshier peach tropicality as the sip lingers.
This opens with funky aromas that suggest farmyard, stewed fruit and worn leather. The dense palate is already evolved, showing raisin, fig, game and walnut that lead to a short, bitter finish.
This offers unusual aromas that suggest worn out leather, scorched soil and a whiff of cellar floor that carry over to the palate along with prune, dried berry and a bitter note of powdered sage. Astringent tannins leave a tongue-drying finish.
Produced from vines in the Mâcon region, this citrus and yellow-fruit-flavored wine is rich, rounded and mature. It still has plenty of freshness, supplemented by almond and butter flavors. Drink now.
Soy and honey swirl around notes of tight-grained oak, with a touch of vanilla-caramel sweetness on the rich, toasty finish. Full flavors of baked pineapple and papaya abound on the palate and through the close.
Brisk aromas of apple, squeezed lemon, pear flesh and a steely minerality show on the nose of this widely available wine. The palate offers candied apple, seared pear slice and a tangerine-pith grip.
Quite ripe in style, this wine packs a bevy of white flower aromas, from jasmine to tuberose, as well as fleshy yellow pears. There is solid sizzle in the glass once sipped, but the honeysuckle prominence, ripe peach and powerful orange-blossom flavors dominate.
The aroma is very ripe, almost like a Port wine. Flavors are deep and ripe, with a twinge of dried fruit, and the texture is appropriately firm and tannic. It's a bold, hearty and full-bodied Bordeaux-style blend.
This wine is full of red-berry flavors with a dry, stalky background texture. It is light and is the style of wine that could be served slightly chilled. The aftertaste brings out crisp acidity. Drink from 2016.
This delicious, sweet and fruit-driven wine smells like pineapple and honey. It tastes full bodied, very ripe and unctuous, and has a long, lingering finish. It will be great with salty cheeses and toasted nuts.
This wine is grassy and herbal in character, with tight acidity and fresh currant and white berry flavors. Crisp at this stage, it will certainly soften, although it will always remain a nervy, green wine. Drink from late 2016.
Somewhat muted, this estate-grown wine is most exuberant in pine and dusty cherry. Full bodied and robust on the palate, it retains a grip of tannin from start to finish.
Soft baking-spice notes mesh with vanilla, red currants, dark chocolate and cranberry on the nose of this bottling. There's a cinnamon and nutmeg spice to the palate, where hibiscus, more cranberry and red cherry also shows.
Still rather closed, this eventually reveals aromas of roasted coffee bean, white pepper and mature berry. The palate is also subdued, offering dried cherry, espresso and toasted oak alongside astringent wood tannins. Reflecting the forward nature of the vintage, the fruit is starting to dry up.
Spiced cherry, plum and dry oak aromas drive the nose. The palate is plump, fruity and creamy feeling, with woody, resiny flavors of plum and raspberry. The finish is oaky and a bit hot, with mint and pepper notes.
Still young, this is beginning to show ripe and honeyed flavors as well as a full texture. The spiciness of the grape comes through strongly with bergamot and lychee flavors. The acidity is elusive, the aging will come from the touch of dryness at the end.
Ripe aromas of raisin and cassis come with creamy oak scents. This is jammy, deep and concentrated on the palate, with tobacco, earth, fig, cocoa and baked berry flavors. The finish is earthy and baked, but boasts enough acidity to keep it fresh and lively.
The Napa-Sonoma winery, straddled across two counties, has added 12% Cabernet Sauvignon to the Cab Franc in this wine. The result is sizable in ripe, blueberry and blackberry fruit, soft tannins and a finish of dark chocolate. Void of any of the variety's signature herbaceous signature, it could easily be mistaken for Cabernet Sauvignon.
Aromas suggest coffee, vanilla, oak, savory herb and menthol. The palate offers espresso, roasted hazelnut, dried sage and sour cherry alongside green, astringent tannins. Drink 2018–2025.
A blend from different Grand Cru vineyards has resulted in this fresh and still-young wine. It has perfumed acidity, crisp acidity and a bone-dry character. Needing to age, it is packed with white fruits and flavored with summer flowers. Drink from 2016.
Intensely perfumed by notes of rose petal potpourri, lychee and honeysuckle, this is a surprisingly well-balanced powerhouse Gewürztraminer. Bright acidity and a hint of minerals offset the bold, expansive mouthfeel. A kiss of honey lingers on the finish.
On first pour this wine seems slightly reduced, after which it shows notes of baking spices and plum. It's medium bodied and plush in feel with silky smooth tannins, but the concentration seems wanting.
An aromatic wine with notes of creamsicle and orange blossom. It's medium bodied with well delineated stone fruit flavors and a lick of tart acidity that seems surprising for the variety and vintage.
This approachable Zinfandel comes from a modern-day vineyard planted with cuttings from pre-Prohibition-era vines and exhibits the complexity these heritage grapes can offer. Smoky and exuberant in cherry and blackberry fruit, the wine has soft tannins and a rounded feel to the palate, its long finish smooth and meaty.
This 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is aged 43 months in new French oak. The oak is indeed dominant here, enveloping more subdued layers of savory leather, dark berry and cassis. Firm, substantial tannins hit on the back of the throat and coat the palate all the way through the long finish.
This medium-bodied Grenache has plenty of personality. There is a smoky, meaty character in the aroma, and the herb, rhubarb and black pepper flavors add interest. It is balanced to the dry, tannic side, which makes it more appetizing and authentic.
Fleshy, ripe black cherry notes persist throughout this bold, robustly concentrated Pinot Noir. It's unrestrained in it's fruity, forward style, but touches of menthol and bright sour-cherry acidity lend balance. The finish is moderately long, with a touch of heat.
Quite light in color, this is a lighter style of Chardonnay, kicking off with crispy green apple aromas mixed with a bit of barrel smoke. Lime and apple lead the lean palate, which shines with granite minerality.
Quince, starfruit and white melon share the spotlight here, with acidity and sugar in balance, yielding a slightly off-dry wine. Forward and fresh, it brings in highlights of lemon tea as it sails across the palate, and could do nicely for a lunch of cold whitefish or trout.
Aromas of lemon zest and freshly cut grass abound on the nose. Flavors of lemon curd and lemon pith bring nuance to the palate.
Light in color with notes of dusty plum, chocolate and spice. The palate is on the lighter side of medium bodied with abundant cherry flavors and chalky, firm tannins that need time to unwind. Best after 2016.
Straightforward apple and melon aromas are lightly oaky, but mostly clean and elegant. This Chardonnay delivers a fresh, clean palate, with a mix of oak, vanilla, banana and melon flavors. A round, properly sized and balanced finish is the final piece of framework.
An unusual version of Pearl, this includes 9% Grenache Blanc and 5% Roussanne in the blend. Though it's labeled Sauvignon Blanc, those other grapes seem to command center stage, and the wine might as well be thought of as a creative white blend rather than a single variety. Pungent and herbal, it has well-knit and balanced green and yellow fruit flavors, with notes of caraway seed and grass.
Ripe and fruity, this is a soft wine with attractive red fruits. With balanced acidity, it is round and fresh, with enough tannins to give support. Aged in one- and two-year-old barrels, it is quite ready to drink with a bright, red berry aftertaste. Consultant Michel Rolland works with Silvio Denz, who owns several Saint-Émilion-area properties and is a négociant elsewhere in Europe.
Château du Cros began life in the 12th century, commanding a superb military vantage point over the Garonne river. The surrounding vineyards have produced a fresh and fruity Merlot-Cabernet Sauvignon blend with a mineral bite that gives a strong sense of structure. Its weight and a firm texture act as a foil to the juicy red berries and attractive acidity. The wine is almost drinkable now but will be better from 2016.
Bold and fruity, this blend is ripe, full of juicy black fruits, with a core of dry tannin. It is going to be a delicious wine with great fruitiness and attractive acidity. A mineral element at the end will allow it to develop well. This is a second wine of Jean-Michel Baudet, fifth-generation winemaker. Drink from 2018.
A wine that is well balanced with attractive ripe berry fruits and generous tannins. It has weight and richness, allowing room for the development of both the structure and the fruits. Drink from 2017.
Spicy wood gives this wine a smooth character. It also adds lift, allowing the rich black fruits to speak out. Acidity is well integrated into the tannins and balanced character of the wine. It's one of seven Bordeaux properties in the Yung family since 1962. Drink from 2016.
Situated on limestone and clay (peyredoulle means hard rock in an old dialect), the wine offers spice and sweet fruit flavors, balancing wood and fruitiness. The classic Merlot, Malbec, Cabernet Franc, Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot blend has considerable potential, allowing plenty of room for the fruit and the wood tannin flavors to integrate. Drink from 2017.
Firm and structured, this powerful wine has considerable aging potential. Black plum skins, dark tannins and ripe, juicy fruitiness are all piled into the solid structure. Drink from 2016.
The wine is all fruit initially and then the firmer tannins kick in. It has a strongly tannic core that leaves the wine dry and tough after 12 months in barrel. The fruit weight should broaden the wine out, giving black fruitiness in the future. Drink from 2017.
Subtle aromas of violet, baking spice and red berry lead the nose on this straightforward wine. The palate delivers dark cherry and white pepper alongside soft tannins. It's showing some age but will offer easy-drinking enjoyment through 2018.
Made from Zinfandel, Primitivo, Petite Sirah and Pinot Noir, this salmon-colored rosé is satisfying in apricot and pineapple fruit tones, with an herbal finish and light body.
This wine is ripe, juicy and packed with fresh red fruits. It has the softest tannins, the whole point being that this wine can be drunk young. The aftertaste brings out acidity. Drink from 2017.
This is a dry, soft and firmly tannic wine, elusive in fruit but quite forward in dusty leather, chocolate and black pepper. Full bodied, it holds on to a density of concentration throughout.
At one moment there is a whiff of fresh apple, the next a hint of wet earth and orange peel. Brisk and dry, the palate also veers from rounded fruit to earthier, funkier notes. It finishes clean and refreshing.
Made with red grape Nero d'Avola and vinified as a white wine, this opens with aromas of white lilac, orchard fruit and cherry blossom. The vibrant palate offers white cherry, apple and nectarine zest alongside tangy acidity.
Made in large quantities from estate vineyards as well as one sourced site in Rutherford, this wine shows a richness of red fruit and a kick of heat around prominent notes of oak.
This blend of Nero d'Avola, Merlot and Syrah opens with aromas of  black-skinned berry and baking spice while the straightforward palate offers black cherry and white pepper alongside chewy tannins. It's made to be consumed young so enjoy soon.
This light-bodied wine has an attractive, tangy combination of lemon and apple flavors that make it taste fresh and lively. It is nice and dry, easy to enjoy and should please a crowd.
Made with 70% Piedirosso and 30% Aglianico, this has aromas of red currant, ground pepper, cedar and a balsamic note. The palate shows blackberry jam, toasted oak and roasted coffee bean but it lacks the fruit richness needed to stand up to the overwhelming oak-driven sensations.
Initially this smells like iodine and inner tube, but with time it freshens up. Plump, dense and chewy on the palate, this Cabernet tastes a touch stewed, with prune, blackberry and peppery flavors. A dense finish is chunky and chewy but awkward.
A streak of petrol persists from nose to finish lending complexity to this otherwise easy-drinking off-dry wine. Pressed apple and lemon flavors shine brightly on the palate, finishing briskly.
This 100% Aglianico opens with aromas of blue flower, mature red berry and a whiff of coffee. The easy-drinking palate has mellow tannins that frame dense black cherry and a hint of black spice.
Rubbery, raw aromas of tomato and red fruits show a sweet note of milk chocolate. Tight, wiry and tough on the palate, this tastes mostly of red fruits and herbs. A lasting, herbal finish tastes a little salty.
Great balance gives this medium-bodied wine an easy appeal, as light spicy aromas combine with ripe red and black-cherry flavors for seamless, smooth sipping.
Aromas like cedar and heavily toasted bread meet very ripe black cherry and plum flavors, for a full-bodied wine that's not shy about the oak influence. While the wine is big, the texture is rather soft and smooth.
Spiky hits of leather and black pepper accent a medium-bodied wine with a softness on the palate that's pleasantly easygoing. Dried herb and cedar mark the finish.
A generous helping of spicy new oak aromas and flavors dominates the taste of this full-bodied, broadly textured wine. Beyond the baking spices, more subtle meaty flavors come out with a second sip.
Aromas of tree bark, pencil eraser, olive, plum and berry fruits are solid. This is quite good for Maule Syrah. The acidity is lively and bracing, while plum and apple-skin flavors finish raw and grating.
This is a juicy, fruity wine with intense acidity. It has spice, berry fruit and some smoky tannins. The aftertaste is tangy, hinting at orange as well as red-currant fruits.
Delicately scented with whiffs of white spring flower, citrus and orchard fruit, this straightforward wine offers flavors suggesting pear, juicy pineapple and bitter almond. Tangy acidity brightens the finish and gives it a clean close.
The slightest hint of pineapple shows on the nose, followed by a just off-dry fruitiness on the palate. This wine is clean and should be drink while still fresh.
This is sharply herbal, with peppery bitter greens framing tart berry fruit. It's 100% Pommard from 20-year-old vines, but in this chancy vintage the fruit flavors did not get quite fully ripe.
This offers aromas and flavors suggesting unripe apricot, peach and lime. The simple palate is a bit raw, but crisp acidity gives it clean, bright finish.
This bright white offers aromas of lime, pineapple and citrus blossom. The fresh palate delivers juicy lemon, apple and a hint of nut alongside tangy acidity while a saline note closes finish.
Modest white-fruit aromas share space on the nose with seashell and briny notes. This feels tight and moderate in depth. Flavors of lemon and tangerine are mild, while this loses some clarity on the finish.
With 62 acres of vines, this estate, which was created by the monks of Cluny, is one of the largest in the Mâcon region. This soft and fruity wine is immediately attractive. Apricot fruits are freshened by green plum and lemon. It is light and ready to drink now.
This zesty Moldovan Feteasca Regala has aromas of pineapple, lemon zest and pear. In the mouth there are flavors of lemon juice, lime pith and a hint of cantaloupe.
Mild apple and citrus aromas are simple and clean. A light, tangy palate with virtually no weight tastes of pithy citrus fruits and tropical papaya. Light on the finish, this fades away quietly.
Scents of citrus blossom, fragrant white flower and orchard fruit emerge while the vibrant palate offers lemon, juicy nectarine, white stone fruit and mineral alongside tangy acidity. A saline note signals the close.
Made with Catarratto, this bright sparkler opens with scents of pressed white flower and a whiff of sea breeze. The racy palate delivers lemon and nectarine before finishing crisp and clean.
Quite light in color, this bargain bottling shows Anjou pear, apple blossoms and fragrant Pink Lady apple flesh on the nose. It's dainty on the palate, with touches of lime juice, chalk and citrus pith.
Underbrush, oak, wild berry, herb and balsamic notes lead the nose of this Brunello. Tightly wound, fine-grained tannins frame cranberry, red cherry, orange zest and white pepper flavors on the palate. A hint of star anise signals the close. Drink 2020–2027.
Sweet cedar aromas kick off this attention-grabbing bottling, with elderberry and black plum scents combining for an Old World feel in which the structure can be sensed on sniff alone. Wood and graphite notes pop on the palate, where a loamy riverstone minerality courses through black currant flavors, finishing on chocolate cake.
Roasted beef and bacon fat scents meet with maple, char, Concord grape and blueberry on the nose of this hearty bottling from a winery recently acquired by O'Neill Vintners. Its tannins are deep and firm but welcoming, providing the framework for black currant, blueberry, charred beef and rosemary flavors.
This Southern Hemisphere adventure from an Austrian winemaking family can turn out some interesting wines. In this case, it's a medium-bodied wine that's firm yet silky in feel, marrying cassis and tobacco leaf with subtle, balanced oak.
The wine emulates Bordeaux in more than name, being medium-bodied and a bit austere. It's firm and linear in construction, blending mint and black currant flavors into a crisp, tightly wound Cabernet. Try after 2020.
Apple notes have a lifted ethereal quality. The palate comes in with beautifully poised lemon freshness that counters the just off-dry richness of the fruit flavors. This is balm-like in its apple-focused fruitiness and goes down very easily. Flavors linger.
From two blocks of a vineyard above Freestone that's strongly influenced by the ocean, this wine is marked by leathery pepper, baked cherry and an exotic mix of savory spice. Medium-bodied, it has a density that's both plush and lush.
One of the winery's single-clone bottlings, this brings tart strawberry and cranberry fruit into focus. It's a young bright stylish effort, with a touch of chocolate and fine tannins.
Parts of Clare Valley are ideal for Cabernet Sauvignon, illustrated by this reasonably priced bottling. Mint and cassis show remarkable purity on the nose, while the palate is properly restrained without being hard or austere. That said, there are some dusty tannins on the finish, so drink 2020–2030.
This appellation blend is a great introduction to the winery's style. It offers hibiscus, shiitake mushroom, cinnamon stick and sagebrush on the nose and is bright yet smoky on the palate, recalling roasted pork, cranberry sauce and earthy, meaty flavors.
Wild berry, tilled earth, new leather and truffle aromas lead the nose of this vibrant red. The linear palate offers tart cherry, cranberry, white pepper and clove flavors, framed by tightly wound, polished tannins and firm acidity. Give it time to fully come together. Drink 2020–2033.
Orange-cranberry in color and medium in body, this wine is sourced from three vineyards. It shows bright cherry, raspberry and orange flavors, with a lift of acidity. Juicy on the finish, it refreshes and rewards in depth and complexity.
Lovely notes of crisp apples make for a very friendly nose. The palate comes in with immense freshness that is nonetheless tempered by a balm-like rounded texture that couches Riesling's freshness in seamless fluidity. The palate remains dry and is colored with red and green apple, lemon and tangerine. The finish is dry and wonderfully lip smacking.
Losada is known for its red Mencía, but this Godello debut is well done. A waxy floral nose with apple and stone-fruit aromas sets up a round full balanced palate with bold acidity. Salty notes accent peach and apple flavors, while this displays grip on a lingering finish. Sophisticated is a good way to describe this.
This polished 100% Pinot Nero wine opens with enticing red cherry, baking spice, blue flower and balsamic notes. The elegant palate delivers red raspberry and wild strawberry fruit laced with cinnamon. It's nicely balanced, with fine-grained tannins and fresh acidity. Enjoy through 2020.
Owned by the Cruse family, part of the old Bordeaux elite, the estate is in the southern Médoc. The wine, with its firm character and rounded fruit, has weight and considerable richness. It will develop into a plush full-bodied wine. Drink from 2020.
With 135 acres under vine, this is a large estate. The high percentage of Merlot in the blend gives this rich wine its ripe blackberry smoky fruits. It is juicy and really fruity with just enough tannin to give the wine shape. Drink this wine from 2020.
Ripe Merlot gives this wine its richness and concentration. It is filled with black fruits, hints of the wood aging and with tannins cushioned by the fruit. Acidity shows strongly at the end, leaving a bright aftertaste. Drink from 2020.
This delightful wine, principally fermented in neutral oak, and aged sur lie, offers lovely details of apple flesh and skin, white melon, a hint of daikon radish, and the pinpoint persistence that is the mark of superior winemaking. Pinot Blanc can go in various directions in Oregon, but this bright and acidic wine really shows the way to a style that is at once drinkable, complex and food friendly.
Another of the single-vineyard Pinots from Brooks, this offers spicy cherry, chocolaty raisins, and dusty tannins. It penetrates and lingers, showing a lot of baking spices from its 18 months in French oak. There's a lick of sea salt caramel wrapping up the finish.
A spicy blast of new oak flavor meets bright, juicy fruit in this medium-bodied wine. It's solidly structured, firm on the palate, with good concentration to go with its athletic build. It will pair well with lamb chops or roast duck breast.
A lovely plum shade, this blends scents and flavors of pomegranate, cherry cola, Asian spice, black licorice and a dash of cacao. It's dense and penetrating, yet drinking well already. It spent nine months in 40% new French oak.
Baked red plum and mulberry flavors are doused with charred sagebrush and hickory smoke aromas in this bottling from Jonathan Nagy. The palate also shows barbecue-like character, which dominates the energetic raspberry fruit and is appealing in a fall-off-the-bone pork rib way.
Citrus and white-fruit aromas are elegant, smooth and suggestive of Burgundy, which makes sense given that this was aged in oak. The right amount of acidity lends lightness and length to the palate, while ripe lime and honeydew flavors are well oaked. A fresh friendly finish is minerally and crystal clean.
Mineral aromas of gravel, graphite and crushed slate show on the nose of this bottling, leading into baked black plum and oak notes. It's a refreshing example from an appellation that tends toward richer, jammy styles. The palate offers raspberry and dried thyme flavors, with a touch of eucalyptus.
A block-designated wine, this shows both purpose and focus, offering a linear expression of stony minerality, crisp lemon and peach. To complement that vibrant freshness, there is a fullness of mouthfeel and a nuanced gravelly texture.
French oak, tobacco and exotic spice aromas emerge in the glass. The firm, full-bodied palate delivers dried black cherry, raspberry compote, vanilla and licorice flavors, framed by assertive but fine-grained tannins. Drink 2020–2027.
Lifted notes of rose water and honeysuckle blossom rise immediately from the glass. They remain just as perfumed on the palate, clothing peach fruit in floral fragrance. There is a pleasantly bitter edge and just enough freshness to stand up to the opulent flavors. This finishes medium sweet and has a perfumed finish.
This 22-acre property produces wines dominated by 90% Merlot. That gives ripe juicy red-fruit flavors, rich tannins and density. There is also a strong streak of acidity that shows vividly. The wine will soften over the next few years and give a delicious drink from 2021.
The wine has weight, tannins and a firm structure. At the same time, its ripe black fruits are developing to fill out the structure and give an impressive wine. Hints of dark chocolate go with the juicy acidity to leave a wine that has several years to develop. Drink from 2021.
A lightly herbaceous aroma and bright citrus flavors make this light-bodied wine fresh and easy to drink. It smells like fresh-cut grass and lemon, tastes like grapefruit and honeydew melon, and feels soft and smooth.
Earthy, loamy and raisiny on the nose, this blend of Cabernet and Syrah has an almost lazy mouthfeel braced by a shot of acidity. Earthy raspberry and blackberry flavors finish direct, with herbal notes. This is the epitome of a competent yet average wine.
Crisp and full of raspberry and red currant fruit flavors, this is an attractive, ready-to-drink wine. A pure line of acidity lifts the fruitiness and gives the wine a bright, very fresh aftertaste.
This crisp, dry rosé is very fresh with delicious acidity. It has a bright character, lively and full of raspberry flavors. Drink now.
This entry-level wine from Lagrézette is certainly purple in color. With touches of wood under the juicy red fruit flavors, and soft tannins, it cries out for a barbecue.
This light-hearted wine comes from a blend of the Gaillac native Duras grape with Syrah. It has raspberry fruitiness fresh with crisp acidity, and a light touch of tannin. Drink now.
A ripe wine that is gently fruity with attractive pear and apricot flavors. It is textured with crisp acidity that contrasts with the rounded, smooth aftertaste. Drink now.
The naturally ripe, yellow fruits and perfumed character of Viognier is well expressed here. It is smooth, bringing out ripe fruitiness that is lightly cut with acidity. Drink now.
Flowery and fresh, this is a classic cool-climate white. Fragrant acidity is balanced by the citrus and pear flavors. Fruity and crisp, it is ready to drink.
Made from a majority of Merlot rounded out by other red Bordeaux varieties, this wine leans savory, featuring mushroom and leather within a suggestion of Martini olive water. The fruit is more shy, revealing black currant at best, with a flat, ghost-like finish.
Practically a liquid fruit salad, this smells and tastes like orange, apple, cantaloupe and banana. The texture is smooth and rounded, rather than crisp. A little buttery flavor comes through on the finish.
Dark, mossy, rubbery blackberry aromas are solid. In the mouth, this is punishing, with raw tannins that suggest grapeskins. Dark, chocolaty, savory, spicy flavors of blackberry and black plum finish toasty but bumpy, tannic and rubbery.
Green apples and citrus flavors dominate this fresh, fruity wine with its finishing acidity. It's light, bright and ready to drink.
One of the most commonly seen French rosés in the U.S., La Vieille Ferme's 2013 delivers a mouthful of bold red fruit, plenty of weight on the palate and a pleasant but quick finish. Drink up.
Grapefruit, flowers and peach aromas and flavors are the hallmarks of this distinctive white. The wine offers clean fruit flavors and a soft finish. Good with seafood and fruit salads.
Dusty berry and cherry aromas include candied notes of cherry cough drop and marshmallow. Simple and choppy in feel, with some resiny oak character, this tastes like red plum and vanilla, while the aftertaste turns salty.
Floral red-plum aromas come with a welcome note of wild herbs. A punchy, stout palate is juicy and possesses short, bold plum and boysenberry flavors. This bright Garnacha doesn't fall off on the finish; it's a good choice for burgers or tacos.
A solid, well-made white at a bargain price, this medium-bodied blend of Viognier, Grenache Blanc, Roussanne and Marsanne delivers mixed citrus aromas and flavors, accented by just a hint of pith on the finish.
Leathery aromas of roasted black fruits show on the nose. Solid in feel, cherry, raspberry and a kick of salt house a medium-bodied palate.
This is fresh and citrusy, with lemon and grapefruit aromas that lead to lightly herbal flavors. It tastes almost dry, is medium bodied, and has a good balance of crispness and straightforward fruit character.
Roasted berry and plum aromas are earthy and leathery. This wine feels raw on the palate, with snappy acidity. Flavors of herb-infused tomato and briny plum finish oaky and spicy, with a forced note of clove. This blend of Merlot, Shiraz, Tempranillo and Viognier is not your typical Chilean red blend.
Briny citrus aromas are pungent, and in general this runs strong on pyrazines and bell pepper scents. A tight, juicy, firm palate is home to citric flavors of pink grapefruit and orange.
This veers strongly into the herbal side of Cabernet. It's scented with stem and leaf, and the flavors follow. It's tight, tart and chewy, verging on sour as it comes up short in the finish.
Typical hints of gasoline on the nose of this wine are bolstered by beeswax, orange blossom water and a steely minerality. The palate is a little flat, with lime pith, lemon juice and very little petrol element.
Short, sharp and attenuated, this has a volatile edge to its aromas, and that sharpness carries over into the palate.
Aromas of corn and melon are decent but hardly the stuff of legend. This feels full and round, with flavors of melon and peach, with a candied honey finish.
With no dosage, this 100% Turbiana opens with aromas of walnut and medicinal herb. The lively palate offers citrus zest, apple skin, bitter almond and a light note that recalls adhesive bandages, all set against a backdrop of large, steely bubbles.
Named after the Knights Templar who were headquartered in the Tejo region of Portugal in the Middle Ages, this estate has produced a fruity, soft and rounded white wine. It has an attractively aromatic character from the inclusion of Riesling and Moscatel in the blend. Wait until the end of 2015 before drinking.
Aromas of bath soap and apple come in front of a creamy, round, oily palate. Honeydew, date and vanilla flavors make for a ripe set of flavors, while toast and caramel notes come up on the finish.
The wine is noted as off dry on the back label, but you won't taste any sweetness whatsoever. It's tart, green, almost sour, with green apple fruit that hints at cardboard in the finish.
Pale salmon in color, this medium-bodied, vibrant and appetizing wine has canteloupe aromas, lemon and pink grapefruit flavors, and a tasty, tangy balance that lasts from the first sip through the finish.
While initially quite smoky and closed, time and aeration coax bright, cheery black plum and cherry flavors from this boldly structured wine. Its rich silky palate balances squarely against brisk acidity and firm gripping tannins that extend the finish. Subtleties of bramble and spice add elegance.
Crunchy fresh pears and white grapefruit abound in this pert fruity Pinot Grigio. Despite its light body, it's expansive and silken on the palate, finishing on a crisp lemon-drop tone. Drink now through 2019 to maximize its fresh appeal.
The Grassa family, owner of one of the largest vineyards in France, has made a blend that is both herbal and intensely fruity. It is deliciously crisp, with great acidity from the lemongrass flavor and a tangy mineral edge. The wine will be ready to drink from late 2017.
Mild peach skin and apricot aromas precede fresh and vivid white peach flavors in this dry, refreshing wine. It's well balanced, has enough concentration to keep it interesting and will be very versatile with food.
An intriguing touch of bergamot permeates the nose. The palate is fruity, aromatic and lithe. This is a summer wine par excellence: fresh, easy-drinking and light bodied. Drink now, while the aromas are at their peak.
Green and yellow pear notes make an immediate appearance on the nose of this wine Its zippy, easy-drinking palate is enlivened with spritz and brings that characteristic savory, yeasty herb flavor to bear. Fresh, easy, dry and light, it finishes zesty and clean.
Made entirely from Nero d'Avola, this opens with ripe red plum, blue flower and baking spice aromas. The juicy palate delivers ripe blackberry, star anise and white pepper notes, alongside velvety tannins. Enjoy soon.
A blend of Scooteney Flats and Kiona vineyards, this 100% varietal wine initially brings barrel-forward aromas of vanillin, clove and spice. This evolves over time to reveal dark plum and pepper. The fruit flavors are fleshy yet still show restraint. If the barrel notes integrate, it could move up a notch.
While dense on the palate with bold alcohol and big tannins, crisp black plum and cassis flavors show pristinely on the palate of this Cabernet Sauvignon. Hints of tobacco leaf, bramble and sweet spice lend a lingering warmth to the finish.
This wine's underbrush, French oak, espresso, coconut and spiced plum aromas carry over to round, concentrated palate, along with licorice, clove, raisin and dried cherry notes. Fine-grained tannins provide polished support, but drink soon to capture the remaining fruit.
Light in color, this bottling from winemaker Colin Murphy shows rounded red plum and tart strawberry scents, with graphite and wet river stone minerality. The palate is lively with acid-driven red fruit that's round and full on the midpalate.
Blended with 20% Grenache, this wine displays somewhat reticent aromas of cranberry, baking spice, raspberry and plum. The cherry flavors are rich with the tannins initially showing a touch of astringency that softens over time.
All the Lemelson Pinots in 2014 are strikingly similar—rather light, tart, clean and simple. Cranberry and raspberry fruit, bright and tangy, tells the whole story here. Drink it over the next few years while that freshness remains.
Winemaker Neil Collins spends his time diving into the region's little known, dry-farmed old vines to deliver distinctive and delicate Zinfandels. This one shows wet riverstone scents, with smashed blackberry and lavender. The palate offers tart black plum, peppercorn and tar touches.
This here is classic amontillado. Aromas of toffee, nuts and dried stone fruits set up a round, racy but regular palate. Salted caramel is key to a fresh traditional flavor profile, while bracing lively acidity creates length on a standard tasting finish.
This wine's tropical fruit and fragrant white flower scents lift out of the glass while the lively palate doles out juicy white peach, green apple and grapefruit flavors. It has clean, crisp finish.
Plum and cherry fruit flavors are dressed in malted milk chocolate. It's smooth and instantly accessible. The wine spent 18 months in 40% new French oak. It's ready right now, and does not require further cellaring.
Fresh stony apple and citrus aromas are composed. Following that lead, this feels focused and fresh. Flavors of stone fruits, citrus fruits and white pepper finish crisp but not real long or deep.
Kevin Riley packs eight varieties into this pink wine, but the major proportion of Syrah and Grenache lend it its deep hue and rose petal, red cherry and vanilla notes on the nose. Grippy red plum skin flavors dominate the compellingly tense palate, followed by Rainier cherry and orange rind touches.
This grape excels in the region's warmer climate, proving relatively light in color and full of baked strawberry, caramel and dust aromas in this bottling. The palate is similarly light but carries an array of fun and easygoing flavors, including more red fruit and leather.
Fermented in oak casks, this opens with tropical fruit, graphite and white pepper aromas. On the lively, medium-bodied palate, candied nectarine and vanilla notes back up ripe pear fruit while a flinty mineral hint marks the close.
Merlot makes up just over three-quarters of this blend, with the balance Malbec, Cabernet Franc, Sangiovese and Petit Verdot. Bright aromas of cherry pie, blueberry, herb, plum and earth are followed by smooth polished blue-fruit flavors. It's a complete delight, focusing on elegance.
Vanilla, ripe pear and cinnamon touches appear on the nose of this wine. That cinnamon impression becomes stronger on the palate, where it frames yellow apple and pear fruit. Medium-bodied and dry, it's characterised more by oak than by fruit, with a richly spiced, mellow finish.
The fresh, peardrop-scented nose of this bottling is appetizing. Similarly clean flavors brighten its dry and easy-drinking palate: green pear, lemon flesh and zest. A friendly, light summer wine.
A rich plummy shade carries you into an aromatic fruity wine with a tart mix of plums and cherries. It's just this side of candied, and there's an intriguing suggestion of peppermint. All in all it's quite tasty, clean and ready for immediate enjoyment.
This rosé comes with a peachy, stone-fruited scent. The palate is taut and fresh, with a little spritz that further accentuates its lemony freshness. The peachy character makes another appearance on the fresh, dry finish.
The nose of this New Orleans-inspired blend is juicy and fruit forward, with blackberry jam, black plum and a light licorice scents. It's soft and full on the palate, with Concord grape flavors and nicely polished tannins. A crowd-pleaser.
Apple, peach and yeast aromas are welcoming but a little wayward. This brut nature shows roundness on the palate and no coarseness. Briny apple and dried-apricot flavors are calm on the finish.
The nose of this Grüner Veltliner suggests generously ripe peach. That ripeness is tempered on the palate, with green and yellow pear fruit and a streak of citrus zest. Lively herbal spice and pepperiness last through the refreshing finish.
While smoke and herb aromas suggest an savory tone, the palate of this shimmering wine is unctuous with sweet peach and hibiscus nectar. High-toned acidity rouses the midpalate, leading to a finish that's fresh and floral.
The best Mosel Rieslings of the difficult 2013 vintage all juxtapose plump, luscious yellow fruit against spine-tingling acidity. Dancing and delicate, this is a classic example of the style. It seems demure in stature, yet packs a punch of complexity and flavor from start to finish.
From a highly sought-after source of Cabernet, this is classically oaky and dusty, a sophisticated take on the grape, dense and soft in waves of black cherry. With medium weight that picks up steam on the milk-chocolate finish, it's an impressive sipper or worthy companion to steak and potatoes.
Alluring aromas of vanilla, cedar, tobacco and blackberry are well-knit and exemplify fine modern Rioja in a good vintage. The palate is tight and wiry, with forceful acidity. Flavors of blackcurrant and berry are bright but come with a rich, oaky accent of coconut. A fresh, full, angular, juicy finish indicates that this will stay in good shape through at least 2020.
Roughly half and half Stermer Vineyard and Meyer Vineyard fruit is selected for this reserve blend. It's a deep-diving wine that pushes precise flavors of black cherry, licorice, vanilla and espresso front and center. A hint of truffle comes up in the finish, and the overall structure and balance are spot-on. You could cellar this for a few more years, but it's already drinking very nicely, so why wait?
This perfumed wine is a superb expression of Oregon Pinot Gris, and the best Tikka's ever from Lemelson. Apples, oranges and ripe melons fill the fruit bowl, bright and luscious and accented with perfectly proportioned barrel notes of toasted coconut and almond.
Generous and fruit-driven, this brings fully ripened black cherry and blueberry fruit into a thick core of flavor. Its tannins are coated with espresso, dark chocolate and a hint of baking spices. Flavors are solid and substantial, and the wine will continue to evolve nicely as it sheds its baby fat.
A Merlot-based blend with accompanying components of Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot, this estate-grown wine excels in its subdued, smoky and toasty oak surrounded by juicy blackberry and a hint of graphite and leather. Textured and structured, it needs time, and will be happy in the cellar through 2026.
This dry-farmed, small-batch wine offers dark purple-fruit aromas alongside spicy spearmint notes and a bit of unique nuttiness. It's fleshy, with ollallieberries and plum-skin flavors on the palate and a fresh fennel herbalness giving licorice grip on the close.
A sweet wine from one of the best Grand Cru vineyards, this is full of ripe spice and is still very young. It offers layers of pepper, lychee fruits and a luscious texture that wraps around the palate. It's going to be excellent; wait until 2018.
Gold in color, this beautiful wine combines intense spice and fruit with a fresh, mineral character. It is off dry, hinting almost at honey and botrytis. The acidity brings out all the complex textures and flavors. Drink from 2016.
Very aromatic, this ripe, full-bodied wine is still young—full of spice, exotic fruits and only a touch of acidity. With a density that can only come from a Grand Cru vineyard, this powerful wine needs to age. Drink from 2017.
Sleek and savory, this opens with aromas of blue flower, perfumed berry, thyme and a whiff of baking spice. The vibrant, delicious palate delivers a core of juicy black cherry interspersed with notes of cinnamon and licorice. Firm, polished tannins provide support and a smooth texture.
Roughly one-third of the blend is Jacob-Hart vineyard fruit. The wine spent a year in one-third new French oak, and retains a fresh, youthful splash of primary cherry and black currant fruit. Supple and well-integrated, it leads into a finish lush with dusty coffee, cocoa, smoke and toasted marshmallow.
Earthy yet elegant, this was made mostly with Nerello Mascalese, Nerello Cappuccio and Nocera grown in steep vineyards above the Strait of Messina. Aromas recall freshly turned soil, red berry, leather and Mediterranean herb. The firm palate offers black cherry, crushed raspberry, game, licorice and clove along with a vein of smoky mineral. Well-integrated tannins provide support. Enjoy through 2021.
Smoky oak aromas are a big part of the positive bouquet that includes plum, wild berry, fresh herb and peppery notes. This authentic, polished wine delivers a mix of juicy acidity and smoothness, while oaky plum and berry flavors come with cocoa and spice notes. A persistent, balanced finish confirms its elevated standing. Drink through 2020.
A blend of 70% Petit Verdot and 30% Cesanese, this opens with aromas of scorched earth, smoke, black-skinned fruit, coconut and a touch of exotic spice. The silky, weightless palate delivers concentrated black cherry, blackberry, mineral and Asian spice alongside silky, smooth tannins. The smoky notes are unusual, and originate from a fire that raged near the vineyards in 2012, but nonetheless add to the wine's depth and character.
Hugely spicy in character, this is a rich, now mature wine that is rounded, smooth and delicious. It shows how well Gewurztraminer can age, losing the tropical fruit character and developing intense pepper and spice flavors along with almonds. Drink now.
Co-fermented with about 2% Viognier, this aromatic Syrah offers a bouquet of floral, citrus and berry scents. It's clean, focused and pure, not fleshy but concentrated. The finish hits a full spectrum of dark flavors—coffee grounds, cacao, smoke, tar and black olive.
All stainless-steel fermented and not put through malolactic, this is an immaculate, fragrant and rich Viognier, a showcase of peach, pear and melon fruit with sharp citrus highlights. Splendid aromatics, ripe and balanced fruit, and impressive length make this a standout.
This begins with a bucketload of dense and brooding aromas, from macerated plums and cherries to dark chocolate and melted black licorice sticks. It's soft and mouth-coating once sipped, with pronounced tannins on the midpalate, flavors of black cherry and olallieberry, a bit of tarry tension and minty sensation on the finish.
Elegant and structured, this opens with delicate aromas of Spanish broom, pear and Mediterranean herb. The linear, vibrant palate delivers juicy green apple, creamy pear and citrus alongside an energizing mineral and crisp acidity. This will continue to develop.  Drink through 2020.
Intense aromas of white peach, tropical fruit and Mediterranean herb lead the nose and follow through to the round palate alongside a mineral note. The juicy fruit is brightened and balanced by refreshing acidity.
VM takes a huge leap in the Syrah race with this wine. It's inky purple in color, with hints of pepper, espresso and black olive accenting blueberry and blackberry fruit. A plush coating partially conceals ample structure, while the richly textured finish lingers a good long time. Drink now–2025.
Still young and compact, this is reminiscent of Shea's own Homer reserve. The overall balance and structure match strawberry, raspberry and cherry fruit to hints of herbs and white pepper. A light touch with new oak brings a hint of toasted hazelnuts.
Named after Etna's most infamous eruption that lasted for 10 years, this elegant wine offers aromas of rose, violet and red berry. The silky, subtle palate delivers wild cherry, raspberry and white pepper flavors alongside supple tannins. Drink through 2018.
Made by Grant Taylor (Valli), this is a silky-textured wine that should remain delicious through at least 2020. It's not the ripest vintage, but there's ample plum and black cherry fruit, subtle rosemary and thyme notes and a touch of mocha.
From the first sniff you can sense the wine's classic structure and balanced depth. The mineral-driven red cherry fruit grabs your attention and grips your tongue. Tannins are balanced and proportionate, and the wine flows through an exceptionally dense finish.
Situated in Turckheim just below the Brand Grand Cru vineyard, Heimbourg is a great vineyard for Gewurztraminer. This wine is dense, rich, poised and balanced. The intense fruitiness is balanced by the structure and a crisp edge to its sweetness. Drink from 2017.
There is a deeply sanguine sense to the nose of this appellation blend by the Buellton-based winery, with bloody meats and graphite giving way to ripe raspberry fruit, brown spices and chopped herbs. It's very spicy once sipped, with black pepper, mocha and red fruits upholding more iron and pencil-shaving flavors on the palate.
Estate grown, this wine offers a density of blueberry and clove aromatically and in terms of flavor. It also has a tightness of tannin and rustic elements of dried herb and leather. Powerfully concentrated, the floral aromatics are hidden somewhat by the richness of the fruit.
Dusty, clammy, white fruit aromas are generic. This is pulpy in feel with a vague focus. Leesy, pithy citrus flavors are standard and short on personality, while this finishes adequately with a mild citric lift.
Soft and ultra-smooth, this is crafted in a drink-now style that holds considerable appeal. Lightly spiced purple fruits are in place, and a hint of a vegetal note is almost invisible. If there is a drawback, it is that the wine has been smoothed out to the point of being almost generic.
Popcorn and apple aromas ride highest on a lightly baked and toasty bouquet. This feels clean and correct, but basic. Flavors of spiced apple and melon blend with fresh celery and lettuce notes in front of a minerally lime-tinged finish.
This wine is made from a majority of Cabernet Sauvignon, with tiny additions of Merlot, Malbec and Petit Verdot. A minty, menthol streak is strong on the nose, veering into almost eucalyptus, while dried herb and a shot of gunpowder provide additional savory aromas and flavors. Big tannins need time in the glass to mellow.
Bright gold in color, this has nutty, buttery aromatics that lead to a low-alcohol palate built upon a sturdy base of crisp apples. Skin flavors add complexity and weight to what might otherwise feel a bit too thin.
Toasted oak, coconut, espresso and exotic spice aromas come together in the glass. The firm palate offers blackberry, licorice and oak-driven spice alongside grainy tannins and brisk acidity.
This wine has a fruity nose of cherry and strawberry with a hint of watermelon. It opens on the tongue with bright flavors of strawberry and watermelon that are joined by mint and eucalyptus. Overall it is a pleasant wine, but the fruit and herb flavors don't quite add up.
Slightly oxidized tones of pressed apple and pear are lifted by a shock of lemony acidity in this spry semi-dry Riesling. The tangerine palate extends moderately long, encouraged by a swathe of dried herb notes.
A ripe full-bodied wine that is a blend of Arinto and Fernão Pires. It misses out on the normal freshness of both grapes, giving instead rich yellow fruits and perfumed spice. There is some acidity, although not enough.
This wine comes from Alexander Valley-grown Malbec, a variety the producer has been planting in earnest over the last few years. Dark pink-red, it is medium bodied and refreshing, with notes of cherry, blueberry and vanilla.
This single-vineyard selection brings black cherry and graham cracker flavors, with a background of stem and herb. Somewhat muted, it could benefit holding to 2017–2018 in bottle.
Normally found in the Dão region further north, the Alfrocheiro in Alentejo produces a soft wine with light tannins and juicy acidity. Flavors of cherries and red plums give it a fruity aspect. It is warm, rich and ready to drink.
This is an attractive, perfumed wine that is a blend of Síria, Arinto and Viognier. It's the Viognier that gives the perfumed character that makes it so distinctive. It's fruity, lightly textured and ready to drink.
This opens with aromas of leafy underbrush, mature berry, menthol and anise. The palate offers dried blackberry, raisin and licorice alongside close-grained tannins and brisk acidity.
Deep raspberry, plump cranberry and licorice show on the nose of this well-constructed wine. A prominent cranberry spice hits the front of the palate and carries all the way into the finish, along with a bit of pencil shavings.
A beautifully crisp wine produced by consultant Anselmo Mendes, this is as fresh as possible, bright with acidity and herbal hints. It's light and very bright, finishing with citrus and orange zest flavors.
Faded black cherry in the glass, this wine offers an aroma of pomegranate and brambles. Flavors of tart cranberry, green pepper and eucalyptus are pleasant enough, but this wine is a bit past its prime.
Dominated by Pinot Noir, this is a tight and stalky wine. It is almost too light, with its acidity and tight tannins to the front. Probably as it softens it will round out, so wait until late 2016 to drink.
Don't let the gold color fool you, this is quite vital with floral, leesy, almost grassy aromas. Bracing acidity is at the core with clover, grass, quince and sour-apricot flavors. Blasting acidity is a force on the finish.
Cherry and raspberry aromas are spunky and simple in front of a crisp edgy palate. Medicinal, lightly rubbery flavors of cherry and plum finish with a raw rub, juicy acidity, a lean body and mild heat.
Gritty plum and currant aromas are basic but fresh. Ditto the palate, which shows acidic scratch but not too much. Prickly lightly oaked cherry and plum flavors end with scratchy freshness, lean tannins and lasting berry notes.
This blends almost-sweet fruit flavors of strawberry and red cherry with savory and spicy notes, making a nicely complex and multi-dimensional, medium-bodied wine. It's smooth and fruity, with no harsh tannins.
This opens with earthy aromas of scorched soil, overripe plum, leather and a funky whiff of farmyard. On the palate, notes of game, clove and sage join raw red cherry offset by bracing tannins.
Woody and dense at first, this smells bright and fruity as it opens. A solid palate houses lightly toasted flavors of blackberry that turn more peppery and toasty on a fairly oaky finish.
A classic Douro blend of Touriga Nacional, Touriga Franca and Tinta Roriz makes a harmonious wine that has ripe berry fruits and a soft structure. It is a stylish wine with a fresh fruity aftertaste. Drink now.
With a high proportion of Pinot Meunier in the blend, this is ripe, warm and accessible. Fresh apple and ripe pear flavors are cut by grapefruit acidity. The texture is soft, ripe and very ready to drink.
Made from Pinot Noir, this fresh and light rosé is packed with red berries and lively acidity. It is perfumed, dry and very fruity. Drink now.
Cherry blossoms, strawberries and wet asphalt elements show on the nose of this wine from a property along Vineyard Drive in West Paso. A nice cola zest starts the palate, which lands on cherries and ripe cranberries before fading away.
Aromas of raisin, Oriental spice and resin emerge in the glass. The polished but evolved palate offers dried black cherry, mocha, clove and licorice alongside smooth, fleeting tannins. This has seen fresher days so drink soon.
This earthy wine features aromas of truffle, ripe plum, leather and just a whiff of barnyard. The palate offers black cherry, crushed raspberry and notes of baking spice alongside assertive tannins.
This balanced wine is crisp, taut and mineral. It tastes very dry, packed with acidity and perfumed apple and lemon flavors. It's quite ready to drink, but will be better from 2016.
This soft and ripe wine is full of bright cherry flavors, with gentle tannins and just a hint of wood aging. A proper Pinot Noir acidity brings out the fruitiness of the wine. Drink now.
Intense tannins and full body make this Syrah difficult to savor at this point, but it may round out with aging. It smells like smoke and black pepper, and tastes like grilled beef and blackberries. It is firm and astringent in texture, tight and concentrated in flavor. Best after 2018.
Leathery red berry aromas move to dark fruit after sitting in the glass. This Malbec is jammy in feel, but overall it's fresh. Earthy flavors of spiced plum, baked berry and salt finish toasty, woody and briny.
Tasty and dry, this offers typical smoky, black peppery aromas, dark fruit flavors and medium body. It comes off as elegant rather than big, due to the smooth texture, slightly subtle flavors and silky texture.
Powerful and pleasant cinnamon aromas dominate the somewhat one-dimensional nose—from Red Hot candies to peppermint stick. The palate expands to cola, blackberry pie and black pepper, with decent grip.
Still rather closed, this eventually reveals aromas of roasted coffee bean, white pepper and mature berry. The palate is also subdued, offering dried cherry, espresso and toasted oak alongside astringent wood tannins. Reflecting the forward nature of the vintage, the fruit is starting to dry up.
Spiced cherry, plum and dry oak aromas drive the nose. The palate is plump, fruity and creamy feeling, with woody, resiny flavors of plum and raspberry. The finish is oaky and a bit hot, with mint and pepper notes.
Still young, this is beginning to show ripe and honeyed flavors as well as a full texture. The spiciness of the grape comes through strongly with bergamot and lychee flavors. The acidity is elusive, the aging will come from the touch of dryness at the end.
Ripe aromas of raisin and cassis come with creamy oak scents. This is jammy, deep and concentrated on the palate, with tobacco, earth, fig, cocoa and baked berry flavors. The finish is earthy and baked, but boasts enough acidity to keep it fresh and lively.
The Napa-Sonoma winery, straddled across two counties, has added 12% Cabernet Sauvignon to the Cab Franc in this wine. The result is sizable in ripe, blueberry and blackberry fruit, soft tannins and a finish of dark chocolate. Void of any of the variety's signature herbaceous signature, it could easily be mistaken for Cabernet Sauvignon.
Aromas suggest coffee, vanilla, oak, savory herb and menthol. The palate offers espresso, roasted hazelnut, dried sage and sour cherry alongside green, astringent tannins. Drink 2018–2025.
Aromas of lemon zest and freshly cut grass abound on the nose. Flavors of lemon curd and lemon pith bring nuance to the palate.
The winery's largest-production Cabernet Sauvignon and that's still minuscule by most standards, this lovely wine is lean in firm tannins and dark plum, with a sprinkling of coconut flakes and vanilla. Spring for the single-vineyard offerings for a fuller experience.
Made from vines planted in 1948, this brawny wine opens with aromas of toasted oak, espresso, black plum, violet and a whiff of leather. The palate offers coffee, chocolate, sage, toast and a hint of black cherry alongside drying wood tannins.
This Slovenian orange-style wine spends 30 months ageing in Slovenian oak barrels. It's amber in color and has aromas of toasted hazelnuts and freshly ground almonds. The finish is crisp, with a fair level of astringency. It would pair well with strongly flavored cheeses.
Straightforward and already accessible, this opens with aromas of rubber, coffee, vanilla, toasted oak and plum cake. The extracted palate delivers mature black cherry, chocolate, and sage alongside evolved, fleeting tannins. Enjoy through 2019.
This opens with aromas of dried herb, sage and a whiff of cellar floor. The palate is rather closed but eventually reveals sour cherry, black pepper, licorice and a balsamic note. Drying tannins give it a rather abrupt finish.
Fresh berry aromas are jammy and floral on the nose. This is bright, snappy and convincing on the palate, with peppery black-fruit flavors. Yes, it's a bit fierce and punchy in feel, but it's also crisp and fresh, with a meat-friendly acidic cut. Drink through 2017.
This is a ripe and smooth wine, full of berry fruits and the lightest touch of tannins. It's juicy, with minerality and fine, long-lasting acidity. It's perfectly placed to go with pasta dishes. Drink this friendly wine now.
A proprietary blend of Zinfandel and Malbec, with smaller parts Merlot, Petite Sirah, Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah, Heritage is powerful and soft. It's awash in blueberry, red plum and vanilla, all verging on superripe, the finish particularly intense.
Foresty aromas of olive, black fruit and cardamom are brusque but solid. The palate is compact, narrow and firm, with grabby tannins that are soluble. Flavors of forest floor, herbal berry and a slight bitterness end with an aftershock of herb, black olive and mint.
A majority Cabernet Sauvignon with 14% Merlot blended in, Artemis is aromatically inviting in dark plum, currant and a streak of herb. Light, lean and well-balanced, the wine features soft, barely perceptible tannins. Tri-tip is a wise pairing suggestion.
Aged entirely in stainless-steel barrels, Origin hails from some of Durell Vineyard's rockiest and windiest sub-sites, adding to its sense of complexity and intensity. Creamy in pear, grapefruit and lime, it's plenty rich, the lush mouthfeel resulting from fermentation in concrete egg.
Aromas of lemon curd and lemon pith are bright on the nose. The wine has a nice level of minerality on the palate, with flavors of green apple and fresh picked apricot that lead into a dry, zesty finish.
Aromas of crushed violet, red berry fruit and mocha waft out of the glass. The palate doles out crushed raspberry, juicy wild cherry and accents of baking spice alongside supple tannins. Savory and easygoing, it also has enough structure to age a few more years. Drink through 2017.
This is an easy and clean sparkling wine, with attractive aromas of red apple, orange and dried hay. Bright, brisk carbonation results in a lively and refreshing palate. A citrus-rind flavor lingers on the softly toasty finish. Drink now.
The only rosé made from Durell Vineyard, this one employs 100% Pinot Noir for a subtle, light, dry wine that's refreshing in strawberry and peach. Having spent six months in neutral French oak, it's structured and midweight, just right for the table.
Selected from the Ritchie Vineyard, this expressive white offers lychee and lemongrass, plus exotic back currents of spice that playfully interject themselves throughout the fruit. Refreshing in acidity the wine veers into tart grapefruit and lemon before settling on satisfying white peach.
The wine is full of ripe berries, red and black fruit flavors. Soft tannins are a subtext to the main fruitiness. Although the tannins are still dry, they will soften to give a fresh wine that will age quickly. Drink from 2016.
From the cool 2011 vintage, this wine brings notes of black tea, dark raspberries and herbs. It's tangy with lip-smacking plum and cranberry flavors backed by firm tannins.
Pretty and polished, this Pinot is delicately structured, with a great burst of acidity and a dry, spicy finish. The raspberry, vanilla and toast flavors are a little thin, but pleasant and complex. It's ready to drink now.
Peppery and bright in acidity, this blend of half Grenache and lesser percentages of Mourvèdre, Syrah and Counoise is a bit mixed. On the one hand it offers red raspberry and pomegranate and perfumed aromatics; on the other hand, the earthiness detracts.
Simple but friendly aromas of green fruits and spring vegetables set up a lemony feeling palate, with flavors of lime, green apple and herbs. This shows pyrazines on a juicy finish, but not so much that the wine comes across green, vegetal or bitter.
This starts with aromas of lemon peel, grapefruit and mineral, with a hint of toasted bread crust. The linear palate offers lemon drop, nectarine and apples alongside racy acidity but it lacks fruit richness.
Subtle aromas of smoke, Bartlett pear and Granny Smith apple carry over to the palate along with a citrusy note and a hint of raw almond.
This is soft, fruity and already delicious with ripe red fruits. There's no wood aging, and the wine displays berry flavors, balanced acidity and a soft, jammy aftertaste. Drink 2014.
Rich blackberry and currant flavors mark this Cabernet. It's bone dry, very tannic and acidic, giving it a severe mouthfeel that's not likely to age out. But it's elegant and food-friendly. Decant it for a few hours.
This attractively priced wine has nice acidity and subtle flavors of pear and lemon. A pronounced swaddling in oak reveals itself on the nose and mid-palate. Enjoy it with food on the richer side.
This wine boasts blackberry, raspberry, white pepper and earthy sensations. It's simple but well-made and cries out for food such as hearty minestrone soup.
An apple-driven wine, with great flavors of red apples, light pears and intense, tangy acidity. It's already a delicious, with freshness and a touch of minerality. Drink now.
The challenge for the winemaker in future vintages is to tame these hard, fierce tannins. With sour cherry candy and sandalwood flavors and tart acidity, this '11 is rustic-chic. Enjoy with an upscale hamburger.
Saline and basic citrus aromas feed into a fresh, light-bodied palate with citrus, lettuce and minerally flavors. A modest, firm finish is light but clean. This epitomizes the good qualities of value-priced Chilean SB.
An easy-drinking wine, it conveys aromas of tropical fruit, Bartlett pear and a hint of saline. The palate offers green apple, banana and almond alongside crisp acidity.
This jammy, crowd-pleasing Zin is well put-together, soft in blackberry spice and has just a trace of wintergreen on the nose. Widely distributed and value-priced, it's a steal worth stocking up on.
A little oak, brisk acidity and good flavors of lemons, limes and mangoes mark this dry, stylishly creamy wine that's fine for drinking now, at a good price.
Subdued aromas include white spring flowers, pear and apple. The palate delivers green apple along with a hint of lemon peel and almond. You'll notice the warmth of alcohol on the close.
This single-vineyard Pinot is a bit tough. The main issue is the tannins, which are edgy. It's ripe in raspberries, pomegranates and cola, with good acidity and a jacket of oak. Drink up.
This Livermore Valley producer travels to Lodi to make this Zin, a smattering of 4% Petite Sirah blended in. Intense in cherry-watermelon candy aromas, its flavors develop into tart cherry, blueberry and spice. With soft tannins this wine is straightforward, with the finish all about dusty cigars.
It opens with aromas of pineapple, papaya and stone fruit. The lively plate offers sweet yellow peach, mango and cantaloupe alongside crisp acidity.
This blend of Merlot and Cabernet has aromas of bell pepper, black currant and a hint of cedar wood. The palate shows one-dimensional flavors of plum, black currant and oak.
Despite ripe cherry, red licorice and cola flavors, this Pinot feels heavy and tannic in the mouth. It lacks the delicacy you want in the variety. It will age for many years, never quite shedding its rusticity.
A ripe, full wine that has almost too much weight, it offers a very rich texture and firm tannins. The blackberry jelly fruits are dense and powered by a fruity feel. Drink from 2016.
Obviously young and still showing the brief wood aging, this is an attractive and juicy wine with ripe red berry fruits, spice from the wood and a soft texture. It should be ready to drink by 2015.
This is a smooth, attractively ripe and aromatic wine. It has soft black fruits, and full tannins. Developing quickly, it already shows attractive fruitiness Drink from 2016.
Plenty of rich, forward raspberry and cherry pie filling flavors in this Pinot, which shows a delicate, silky mouthfeel. With crisp acidity and a spicy finish, it's easy to drink now with burgers and grilled salmon.
A familiar brand on Portuguese wine shelves, this is a ripe wine, soft and smooth. Light tannins are finely integrated with the red berry fruits and juicy acidity. It's an easy wine that has good structure. Drink now.
Prominent notes of char and toasted wood lend a dark, oaky tone to preserved black cherry and plum flavors on this medium-bodied Pinot Noir. The palate is brightened by crisp acidity and faint hints of violet and blackberry, but overwhelmed at present by oak.
Blended from all five classic Bordeaux varieties, based on Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine suffered from the cold vintage. The wine is tannic and acidic, and the cherry and currant flavors are modest. The winery did its best to install elegance, and succeeded, but it's a wine to air and drink now.
This wine is full of red-berry flavors with a dry, stalky background texture. It is light and is the style of wine that could be served slightly chilled. The aftertaste brings out crisp acidity. Drink from 2016.
This delicious, sweet and fruit-driven wine smells like pineapple and honey. It tastes full bodied, very ripe and unctuous, and has a long, lingering finish. It will be great with salty cheeses and toasted nuts.
A pretty pale salmon color is matched by aromas of strawberry and herbs that are light and delicate. The palate brings the suggestion of sugar with an elegant styling.
This ripe wine has spice as well as red-berry fruits. Good acidity combines with light tannins to deliver a balanced wine with a mineral edge that should age for a few more months. Drink from 2017.
The entry-level wine from this domaine is light and soft, offering attractively perfumed apple fruits and balanced acidity. The wine is refreshing, fruity and ready to drink.
The name Tradition in Loire terms often means no wood aging. This wine is certainly all fruit: 75% Gamay and 25% Pinot Noir, from the small area of Chateaumeillant south of Sancerre. The grapes give a juicy, red cherry and berry-flavored wine that's fresh and light. After nearly four years, it is ready to drink.
The 24-acre Domaine Curot is at Thauvenay close to the Loire. This wine is attractive and soft. Apples and ripe pears dominate, with a fresh citrus streak. It's ready to drink.
A medium build and managed acidity combine for a crowd-pleasing wine that will satisfy in melon, lime and vanilla. The oak is never obtrusive or unsupportive of the whole.
Named in honor of North Carolina's first commercial winery and a woman born in the 1500s in the Lost Colony of Roanoke, this white is floral in kumquat and toffee, a mix of rich and robust that's tropical in personality. Tangy acidity closes out the finish, revealing the toasty oak it inhabited for a year.
This wine packs a playful nose, with strawberry, plum blossoms, crushed cloves, cedar and a touch of vanilla proving quite inviting. The palate is light, ripe and drinkable, if not very complex, with flavors of strawberry jam, licorice and milk chocolate.
Minerally cherry and raspberry aromas are as crisp as the black volcanic soil this varietal Listán Negro comes from. Bright in color, juicy and aggressive on the palate, with candied cherry flavors that are short on complexity, this Canary Islands wine tastes of berry residuals and brown sugar on the finish.
Light aromas of yellow apple, pear and spice lead to off-dry flavors that trail toward the finish.
Blended from selected vineyards across the Sonoma Coast near Carneros, including the producer's own estate, this wine is made to be approachable and ready to go. It was aged in neutral oak casks, stainless steel and some larger neutral French oak. Herb and mint stand out against a backdrop of rustic black cherry.
Subtle green-apple aromas and rich, ripe pear flavors make a pretty convincing argument for this full-bodied but soft-textured wine.
Leafy underbrush, wet earth, cellar floor and dried rose petal are some of the aromas you'll find on this. The evolved palate is rather muddled, offering dried black cherry, game, vanilla and a green note of powdered sage accompanied by astringent tannins that leave a mouth drying finish.
A combination of Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, Petite Sirah and Petit Verdot, this wine is thick, dense and extracted. Fully robust in tannin, it features a powerful grip of gunpowder, blackberry and currant, making it a good choice for barbecue.
Light, almost neutral aromas are like stream water touched up with lime. This is basic on the palate, but easy to process. Flavors of papaya and melon are a bit leesy, while this Treixadura-Torrontés blend is short on the finish.
Saucy blueberry aromas are a touch muddled and difficult to decipher, while this Garnacha feels medium in body and healthy. Raspberry and plum flavors come with a resiny, pasty oak note, while medicinality rises up on the finish.
This informal red opens with aromas of violet, berry and a whiff of sawdust. The simple, fleeting palate offers dried black cherry and a hint of dark spice alongside grainy tannins that lead into an astringent, abrupt finish.
Heady notes of cedar and pine lend a woodsy undertone to plump blueberry and black cherry flavors in this slightly soft, yielding Merlot. Delicate acidity and whisper-light tannins add to its plush feel. Drink now through 2018.
Grass and apple-flesh notes are wrapped in a slightly reductive, oily frame on this blend of 55% Sauvignon Blanc, 18% Loureiro, 15% Verdelho, 7% Grenache Blanc and 5% Chardonnay. The flavors are also a tad tarry, with green-apple peels, lime zest, candied pear and dried grapefruit.
Reduced and thickly concocted, this wine overpowers in big tannin and oak. The fruit presents a mix of cherry and cassis wrapped in dark chocolate, burly and a good fit for the power thirsty.
This is the winery's first bottling of Malbec from this up-and-coming vineyard. Woodspice, cedar and mushroom aromas are followed by seemingly dried-out cherry flavors that trail toward the finish.
This rounded wine is still tight and closed. The texture shows strongly at the moment, but will soften to bring out the crisp fruits and perfumed acidity. A rustic edge needs to blow away as the wine matures. Drink from 2017.
Ripe and fruity, this is a rich style of rosé. It has forward succulent strawberry flavors that are gently lifted by acidity. There is also a young, almost bitter character that, unusually, suggests this rosé needs to age. Drink summer 2016.
Apple and pear aromas are dusty and leesy. This varietal white Grenache feels linear, with no up or down to the mouthfeel. Flavors of citrus fruits and mango finish lean, crisp and minerally, with lemony acidity.
Floral plum and horsey aromas comprise the nose on this multigrape blend led by Bobal. A grabby palate exhibits raw, tough tannins, while plum and berry flavors finish rugged.
This progressive domaine in Tavel reaches into neighboring Lirac for this wine, which is a high 70% Cinsault (the balance is Grenache). It's fresh and citrusy despite having ample weight, ending on a zesty note.
Honeyed in apple, pear and mango, this is a tightly wound, full-bodied wine, voluptuous and quite ripe in style.
Round, creamy apple aromas open things up. This is melony and soft in feel, with flavors of cider, lemon and lychee. A tropical-leaning finish is solid but suggestive of a wine in decline. Drink immediately.
Almost jet black, this single-vineyard reserve sports marvelously complex aromas of smoked meat and dark fruits. Those perfectly ripened and layered berry, black cherry and cassis flavors are wrapped in slightly smoky, super-smooth tannins.
Despite being barrel fermented and matured, this Condrieu retains a remarkable amount of varietal character in its flamboyantly floral and spicy aromas. It's full bodied, broad and richly textured, yet avoids any sense of heaviness, finishing on hints of honey and white pepper. Drink now–2020.
This is Doubleback's first vintage to include estate-grown grapes in the blend. Truffle, mocha and ripe purple-fruit scents explode from the glass. Ample acidity underscores the chewy tannins. A dense and ageworthy wine, this needs more bottle-age to show its best; try after 2018.
This reserve is only occasionally produced. A stunning wine, it's tight and packed with raspberry and cherry fruit that show great concentration, well-balanced acidity and ripe tannins. The barrel-aging brings in a nice lick of chocolate to this blend that includes a small amount of Petit Verdot.
Made from estate-grown fruit near the chilly Sonoma Coast town of Freestone, this is a fully layered wine, expertly balanced in acidity yet offering plenty of full-figured mouthfeel and viscous pleasure. It delivers an electric mix of Meyer lemon, minerals and brioche, and will please a diverse range of palates.
This impressive offering is drawn from the cooperative's own domaine. It's full bodied and firm, with a chewy finish that demands cellaring, but the complex aromas and flavors of cedar, cassis, roasted meat, licorice and cracked peppercorns are compelling even now.
This hides its 37 g/L residual sugar with bracing acidity and overall complexity. A dense run of ripe fruits—Meyer lemon, sweet pineapple, orange, tangerine and papaya—carries an interesting black tea note. The sweetness is detailed and complex, with honey and ginger candy flavors.
A specialty of Chanson, this small premier cru gives a perfumed, dark and tannic wine. The dense, firm structure gives a dramatic base to the ripe black fruits, balanced acidity and a touch of wood that smoothes the wine. Drink from 2018.
Big, ripe and fruity, it combines a rich character along with the firmest tannins and dense structure. Acidity adds a touch of freshness, while the structure and full fruit are concentrated and still young. Give this solid, dark wine at least until 2020.
The right sense of weight and structure are allied with gorgeous fruitiness and freshness. This winning combination shows black fruits and a brooding character that needs time. Drink from 2018.
When you're blending barrels from multiple vintages, you'd better make a fine wine. Oso Libre succeeds with this opulent offering from their Abernathy Vineyard. There is leather, mocha, oak smoke, vanilla and deep cherry on the nose, followed by a rich palate of ripe red-berry fruit and a lingering campfire-flavor finish.
A wine from a tiny premier cru that is literally situated at a crossroads. It displays the smoothness and richness that come with wood aging, as well as concentrated tannins to support the generous fruit. Black plums and strawberries give a dense wine that will age. Drink from 2018.
This gorgeous wine opens with fragrances of blue flower, moist earth, leather and ripe berry. The delicious palate delivers succulent black cherry, cinnamon, white pepper and balsamic herbs alongside smooth, silky tannins. It's already delicious now, but hold for complexity. Drink now–2026.
This single-vineyard Rioja is smooth, pure and elegant. Aromas of lemon peel, tobacco, cookie dough, marzipan, spiced plum and cassis set up a lush, deep palate with saturated flavors of wild raspberry, ripe plum, chocolate and fig. Compelling notes of licorice and chocolate are accompanied by a touch of youthful heat and burn on the finish. Best from 2015 through 2025.
One of the flagship wines of Louis Latour, this has great weight, richness and ripe yellow fruits, all surrounded by wood and citrus flavors. A sense of mineral in the texture adds complexity, while the firm structure needs to age. Drink from 2018.
While this wine comes out of the gate showing little but earth and dark fruit aromas, it lightens and develops more delineation with air, eventually revealing berry, plum and spice notes. Right now, the flavors are almost jammy, so purists may want to wait a few years before opening a bottle. Full-bodied, chewy and rich, this superripe Hermitage should age well for up to 15 years.
Ripe, muscular aromas of forest floor, blackberry, cassis and violet are stunningly attractive. This is showing vise-grip tannins in support of blackberry, licorice, mocha and woodspice flavors. Café mocha and an oaky, creamy note of toffee work the finish on this well-structured wine that should be drunk from 2015–2025.
Those who love the smell of campfires could park their nose in this wine all day. But this is gourmet smoke, reminiscent of applewood, with hints of vanilla and tea-smoked duck. On the palate, this extremely well-put-together wine is plush, expansive and tastes like blueberry pie, adorned with the buttery crust and all.
This is a powerful wine with complex structure, dense fruits and a solid texture. It's dry, firm, dark and still very young. The core of the wine is still tannin, the black cherry fruit giving so much richness before the fresh acidity cuts in. Drink from 2018.
This wine is a dark garnet color, dense to the rim, with potent blackberry and dark cherry aromas. Delicious and pure blackberry and boysenberry flavors linger through the finish. It's big and bold but the power is in the magnificent fruit flavors rather than tannin, oak or alcohol.
Very terroir-driven from chalk soil in this great vineyard, this firmly structured wine is powerful and solid. There is a mineral character at this stage of the wine's development, with 60% new wood giving a lightly smoky feel. Drink from 2017.
A Bordeaux-style blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, this also holds small amounts of Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot. Sourced from the Conner Lee and Stonetree vineyards, it's supple, smooth and textural, with elegant, perfectly ripened fruit and a judicious application of two-thirds new French oak. It captures the elegance, restraint and overall structure of the challenging (and rewarding) 2011 vintage.
This burly Tempranillo opens with an alluring blend of graphite, stony mineral, marzipan and ripe black-fruit aromas. The palate is lusty, giant and tannic, but not mean or fierce. Blackberry, cassis and chocolate flavors end with café mocha and licorice notes, while tannic grab suggests aging this until 2015–16 and drinking through 2023.
This very mineral wine comes from the Grand Cru that is situated in the village of Chassagne-Montrachet. That gives it weight and power as well as a textured character. It's tight, packed with citrus as much as yellow fruits, and needing many years to age. Drink from 2018.
A brooding Cabernet full of green and black olive, velvety cassis and cinnamon spice, this is ready to enjoy now. A juicy red, it has resolved tannins and a lingering taste of tobacco. Power and finesse are here, along with smoky minerality and savory fruit.
This iconic wine is rich and perfumed. It's powerful and concentrated, with layers of wood contrasted by explosive, ripe fruits. Ripe red-fruit flavors are brightened by ample acidity, resulting in a sumptuous wine that also has enough tannins to age. Drink from 2018.
Rich and rounded, the wine has classic power. Wood flavors show strongly at this stage in its development, but it is full, ripe, full of yellow fruits, pineapple and apple skins. The wine has great weight, but offers a fresh, straight and crisp aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
Aromas of blue flower, rich black fruit, cooking spices, leather and thyme waft out of the glass of this soulful young Taurasi. The palate offers a juicy core of black cherry accented by notes of black pepper, nutmeg, eucalyptus, pipe tobacco and mineral, with firm acidity and velvety tannins. It's already delicious, but hold for additional complexity. Drink 2019–2029.
Chanson owns four acres, a quarter of this premier cru. This 2011 is smooth, rich and very elegant. Fruitiness is striated by a mineral, tight texture that gives a touch of steeliness. Drink from 2017.
Faiveley owns two acres of this large Grand Cru vineyard. This 2011 is a big, bold and fruity wine that shows red fruits, a sweet texture and good acidity. It's powerful and dark, jammy as well as structured. The wood flavors are still showing strongly and need to soften. Drink from 2019.
Vanilla, ripe pear and cinnamon touches appear on the nose of this wine. That cinnamon impression becomes stronger on the palate, where it frames yellow apple and pear fruit. Medium-bodied and dry, it's characterised more by oak than by fruit, with a richly spiced, mellow finish.
The fresh, peardrop-scented nose of this bottling is appetizing. Similarly clean flavors brighten its dry and easy-drinking palate: green pear, lemon flesh and zest. A friendly, light summer wine.
A rich plummy shade carries you into an aromatic fruity wine with a tart mix of plums and cherries. It's just this side of candied, and there's an intriguing suggestion of peppermint. All in all it's quite tasty, clean and ready for immediate enjoyment.
This rosé comes with a peachy, stone-fruited scent. The palate is taut and fresh, with a little spritz that further accentuates its lemony freshness. The peachy character makes another appearance on the fresh, dry finish.
The nose of this New Orleans-inspired blend is juicy and fruit forward, with blackberry jam, black plum and a light licorice scents. It's soft and full on the palate, with Concord grape flavors and nicely polished tannins. A crowd-pleaser.
Apple, peach and yeast aromas are welcoming but a little wayward. This brut nature shows roundness on the palate and no coarseness. Briny apple and dried-apricot flavors are calm on the finish.
The nose of this Grüner Veltliner suggests generously ripe peach. That ripeness is tempered on the palate, with green and yellow pear fruit and a streak of citrus zest. Lively herbal spice and pepperiness last through the refreshing finish.
Elegant in texture and concentrated in flavor, this medium-bodied wine has fresh blackberry and blueberry aromas paired with ripe fruit flavors and an easygoing texture without a lot of tannin. Black pepper and cardamom whiffs add some complexity.
At 20g/L of residual sugar, this is sweet enough to work well with spicy dishes, like many curries. Green apple, peach and pineapple flavors show a fine balance of ripeness and acidity on the long, mouthwatering finish.
Grassy green underdeveloped aromas are not what Emilio Moro wines are known for, but given that this is a 2013, these scents are not without foundation. The palate follows the nose with raw pulling tannins and green-leaning flavors of basil, plum and boysenberry. A tight scouring finish is consistent with what came before it.
Cinnamon and clove notes accent fleshy fruit flavors of ripe pear and melon in this broad, nearly full-bodied wine. Those attractive spice notes linger on the finish.
A sizable 70,000 cases of this bargain were imported, so it should be reasonably available. The citrus fruit does have a greenish tinge to it, boasting hints of passion fruit, snap pea and green onion, but they're within the bounds of regional typicity, and bring a crisp, tart edge to the finish. Drink now.
Dark toast, dill and tobacco frame this late-release Bordeaux-style blend, but there's still plenty of pristine black cherry and cassis flavor too. It's surprisingly fresh and fruity, balanced crisply in acidity and alcohol. The finish lingers on a sweet-tart berry tone.
Blackberry, oak, spice and chocolate aromas are dealt in equal parts. This feels ripe and fairly plush. Flavors of burnt toast, black pepper and charred wood lead secondary fruit notes across the palate and onto the finish.
Deep in color and dramatically smoky in flavor, this full-bodied wine is not at all shy. It tastes fruity, saturated, nicely tannic and very oaky. Charred meat, black pepper and espresso impressions wind through the generous black cherry and blackberry notes.
A chalky, mineral aroma leads to lively green apple and dried herb flavors. This wine is light-bodied and subdued but has enjoyable, savory flavors to complement its moderate fruitiness and an easy elegance that separates it from the pack.
Dry, earthy berry aromas are lusty and integrated. This has a crisp snappy punchy mouthfeel that's driven by lively acidity. Savory, salty flavors of berry fruits, hard spices and tomato finish with scrubbing acidity and good length.
Ripe apple, toast and grilled herb scents lead the nose while the medium-bodied palate offers pear, ripe citrus and toasted almond hints. A mineral note lifts the finish.
Slightly yeasty notes of brioche and sugar cookie entice on the nose of this full-bodied lavishly foamy sparkling. It's weighty and expansive on the palate but balanced by high-toned acidity and fresh apple and pear flavors.
The aromas of cherry, herb and raspberry are light but show a pleasing sense of purity. The palate is tart and elegant, with the oak dialed way back and the bright acidity pulling together the finish. Pair it with food to see it at its best.
Charred black plum, cola and licorice aromas show in this rare bottling of Petite Sirah from Santa Barbara County. The palate is streaked with dark purple and black fruit, its tarry tannins and sharp acidity dissolving rather quickly.
Fleshy red cherry fruit bursts from the glass. The palate has corralled the abundant fruit into an easy, fresh and appetizing package, with a medium body and smooth texture.
Coming from one of the state's premier vineyards, barrel-spice aromas are at the fore on first pour, with black-fruit and herb notes far in the background. The dark-fruit flavors are concentrated initially, tapering slightly toward the finish.
This savory white opens with toasted nut, mature apple and citrus zest aromas. Mirroring the nose, the round, juicy palate doles out ripe apple, peach and candied tangerine flavors with moderate freshness. A bitter almond note graces the finish.
This wine's neutral nose hints slightly at green pear and lemon. The palate is wonderfully brisk, with lemon and pear fruit that's exquisitely light and refreshing. A versatile white with a clean finish.
Ripe, black cherry scents pervade the nose of this wine. The palate is full of that same generous fruit, but balances it well thanks to ample freshness. This will be delicious slightly chilled.
Made entirely from Nero d'Avola, this opens with black-skinned berry, freshly turned soil and cooking spice aromas. The soft, juicy palate offers blackberry, carob and clove flavors while rounded tannins lend a smooth texture. Enjoy through 2019.
Mild aromas of butter, hay and sea water feed into a crisp fresh palate that's punchy and solid. Lightly salted briny white-fruit flavors are classic for a fino, while this offers hints of vanilla and white pepper on the back end.
Crafted from a mix of 48% Syrah, 45% Grenache and 7% Mourvèdre, this aromatic rosé is spicy and bursting with star fruit, citrus, apple, pear, apricot and more. It's a lively full-bodied wine with a smooth finish.
A stony, wet cement-like aromas meets Anjou lime and jasmine touches on the nose of this bottling from a winery recently acquired by O'Neill Vintners. The palate leads with a dollop of acidity and slowly releases lemongrass, Asian pear and ripe nectarine flavors, cut with a tense streak of lime.
A lovely streak of lemon pervades both flavor and taste of this slender, fresh and easy-drinking white. Drink soon while aromas are still fresh.
This opens with aromas suggesting aromatic herb, hay, yellow flower and light balsamic note. The bright, restrained palate offers lime, lemon peel and sage while a mineral note signals the close.
Broad and ripe, this wine offers hints of lemon curd, crushed stone and cashew butter. Ripe melon fruit flavors dominate the palate, even suggesting honey at times, while anise notes provide a bit of lift on the finish. Drink now.
Aromas of apple, orange peel and citrus oil are reasonably interesting. A ripe, loud palate offers plenty of acidic kick, while this tastes fresh, with lime and orange flavors. A racy finish tastes mostly of green apple.
Peach and honeysuckle aromas rise out of the glass in this floral and inviting medium-bodied white that was fermented in stainless steel, then aged in French oak barrels, 20% of them new. Never over the top, it offers a richness on the finish.
Crisp-tart lemon and apple flavors cascade on the palate of this invigorating, fresh Riesling. It's a juicy, approachable off-dry wine that finishes with a bristle of lemon-lime acidity.
Apparently the Oregon Trail leads down to Santa Rosa, where this wine was cellared and bottled. Long-distance travel aside, it's a good wine for gulping, matching red currant fruit to a generous wash of black tea and tobacco. Flavors pull up a bit short, but by then the next swallow is already on the way.
Dark pink-red in color, this is a dry, lean and pleasant quaff, bright in cranberry and orange, with a meaty back note and a quick finish.
Campfire smoke presents a hearty, full-throttled introduction to this rugged wine, grippy, with offerings of red and black berry layered against tar and dark chocolate.
A hearty cradling of oak provides a tinge of vanilla sweetness here, before richer notions of apple pie and cinnamon tug at the wine's fuller-bodied core. It'll appeal to fans of this richer, riper style, while still finishing in a measure of acidity.
The generous fruit flavors in this medium-bodied, smooth-textured wine are like those in a cherry-rhubarb pie but without the sugar. Light herbal olive aromas start it out.
Not exactly worth 100 points as the label implies, but this wine is ripe and full flavored, smooth on the palate and almost soft in texture. It is medium bodied and very drinkable.
Lively, spicy oak aromas, rich fruit flavors and a lightly tannic texture make this a well-balanced dry wine that will be great with burgers, ribs or carne asada burritos. The price can't be beat either.
This aromatic, medium-bodied white flirts with a distinct grassiness that can overwhelm, before settling into finer notions of grapefruit and stone fruit, as well as ripe, fleshy cantaloupe.
Chunky aromas of tomato, saucy berry fruits, asphalt and tire rubber are somewhat harsh. Flat and lazy in feel, this chunky, full-bodied number from Bío Bío tastes of baked cherry and plum fruit. A finish with low acidity and not much kick is the ending.
This has aromas of yellow flower and orchard fruit while the rather lean palate shows green pear, saline and obvious alcohol. A note of bitter almond closes it down.
Woody notes of sawdust and cinnamon stick drive a mostly fruitless nose. This feels lean and fresh, but foamy. Dry, salty and savory more than fruity, this blend of Trapat and Garnacha finishes steady, with notes of citrus fruits.
This medium-bodied wine is high-toned in red fruit and tannin, a mix of cedar, black currant and blackberry that broods in the French wood it spent almost two years resting within, 60% of it new. Small percentages of Petit Verdot and Cabernet Franc are in the blend.
A soft fruitiness and smooth texture make this medium-bodied red easy to enjoy. Strawberry and cherry notes rest easily on a bed of light tannin that adds an appetizing mouthfeel.
Prune, tobacco and wild berry aromas are jumbled together. This is big, grabby and a touch clumsy, with heavily oaked flavors of hickory and burnt corn running alongside mint and berry. A resiny, oaky finish tastes smothering.
Jasmine and fresh-cut pineapple scents lead the way to tropical fruit flavors of guava and mango and a soft finish.
This is a coppery-tinged, pale-flamingo pink blend of Grenache, Syrah and Merlot that's dry and taut. Crisp flavors of underripe stone fruit and melon provide ample summer refreshment. Drink now.
This clean and relatively crisp wine has mild fruit-salad flavors and lively acidity. It's medium-bodied, not too assertive and should please a crowd.
Red cherry, ripe cranberry, blackberry and a rocky minerality show on the nose of this once popular twist-top, bicycle-sporting wine that's back on the market. The palate is very fruit forward with very ripe blackberry and red cherry fruit, enough grip to catch attention and a cigar box complexity.
Earthy, leathery aromas and dense tobacco and cedar flavors make this wine a bit of a taste adventure. The mouthfeel is posh and finely tannic, and black cherry and dark chocolate notes kick in and last through the finish.
Dark, black and leathery, this wine has an Old-World spirit and rusticity, a dearth of fruit under smooth, thick and dense tannins as well as oak.
Don't look for much flesh here—it's a light, quaffable style with suggestions of hard cherry candy. Barrel aging adds highlights of ground coffee, with firm acidity carrying the finish.
Apple and citrus aromas are neither well defined nor overly aromatic. Fresh and juicy on the palate, this offers citrus peel and green melon flavors. Mild and short on the finish.
Sliced green pears, honeysuckle, jasmine, cut limes and a touch of apple-flavored bubblegum show on the nose of this bottling. The texture is nicely cut with steely grip, releasing flavors of sour apple, ripe nectarine and honeydew.
A closed nose gives little away of the conifer and pine notes that seem to spice this wine. It has aromas of oak and some cinnamon but fruit never makes it to the fore.
This affordable wine is a testament to skilled sourcing and blending, using choice grapes from up and down the coast. Spicy cherry, forest and black tea aromas provide plenty varietal character, while medium-bodied weight and juiciness are lifted by bright acidity.
Smooth, polished and suave describes this tenor of a wine that ranges from high notes to dark plum and fig baritone flavors that resonate through the lingering finish. It's a deft blend of Syrah, Grenache and Mourvèdre.
This wine opens with the fresh liveliness of stemmy earth and black tea notes, growing funkier and more herbal on the midpalate. Brightly layered and deeply flavored, it's a full-bodied rendition that remains true to its variety.
Well differentiated from the winery's Pinot Blanc, this round and fleshy wine offers freshly cut pear fruit with a burst of orange juice and peel. It's bright, lively, spicy and a great all-purpose white wine when you need a break from Chardonnay.
Opulent and ripe, this full-bodied wine has great fruit concentration, a rich texture supported by firm tannins and a lingering, plummy finish. Oak plays a minimal role through all its blackberry and black plum flavors, but spicy clove and cedar accents emerge and persist through the finish.
Made of 95% Sangiovese and 5% Merlot, this elegant, structured wine opens with spicy red berry and underbrush notes with a hint of toast. The firm palate offers dried black cherry, clove and mocha flavors, framed by assertive but polished tannins. Drink 2018–2025.
Made of 70% Trebbiano, 15% San Colombano and 15% Sangiovese, this savory dessert wine opens with fig, maple syrup and caramel aromas. The complex palate delivers chestnut honey, toasted almond and candied date flavors, while a hint of dried tangerine accents the lingering finish.
Herbal, dusty and oaky on the nose, this wine is sourced from such impressive vineyard sites as Bosche Vineyard and Wood Ranch, and employs small amounts of Merlot, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Franc. Black currant, dark cherry and clove flavors dominate in this classic, medium-bodied wine with firm tannin and bright acidity.
This wine is lifted by vibrant acidity and shows bread-like aromas accented with wild strawberry, compost and forest floor flavors. Light-bodied and fresh on the palate, it's nicely crafted and table-ready.
Potent earthy cherry and animal aromas are neither too pushy nor overbearing. This is quite full and concentrated, with a ripe-fruit mix of black plum, blackberry and chocolate flavors. Chocolaty oak is even more out front on a deep finish. Drink through 2024.
this is a lovely effort and a great value from Sidewood in the Adelaide Hills. Grilled peaches provide the flesh, while a bright, citrusy note adds focus and length to this ripe, rich Chardonnay. Drink now–2020.
Tight and precisely hewn, this is crystal clear and medium weight while pushing strawberry and cherry fruit into the core. Its 14 months in one-quarter new French oak added hints of vanilla custard.
One of the best sparkling reds I've had in a long while, the current-release Vixen is 77% Shiraz, 15% Cabernet Sauvignon and 8% Cabernet Franc. Black cherries, vanilla and mint mingle easily on the nose an palate, with is rich but rather dry. It's ready to drink now.
Stewy and rustic when first tasted, this wine develops intrigue in the glass. A mixture of fresh compost and minty earth aromas underlie concentrated baked plum and clove flavors. Ripe and robust, it drinks fresh and fruity.
Elegant spicy aromas of dried red fruits and plum are fresh and clean. A pure forward medium-bodied palate holds flavors of spiced cherry, plum and vanilla. Those flavors are repeated and unbroken on a clean lithe finish. Drink through 2022.
Made in a savory, ageworthy style, the 2013 Covenant features aromas of tar, espresso and black olive. It adds intriguing red-berry notes on the full-bodied palate, along with dusty tannins that persist through the long finish. Drink 2018–2025.
Earthy black-fruit aromas show a side note of rubber. This feels tight, deep and concentrated, with hard tannins. Blackberry, cassis, toast and dark-chocolate flavors finish firm and dry, with a chocolaty aftertaste. Drink this full bold true-to-form Ribera del Duero through 2025.
Under the same ownership as Château la Dominique in Saint-Emilion, this estate continues to make impressive wine. With its subtle tannins and ripe berry fruits, it is structured while never letting the tannins overwhelm the fruit. It is an impressive wine to age, so drink from 2021.
The moated fairy-tale castle of Agassac is a showpiece of the Médoc. This wine is structured, juicy and firm. It has dense dry tannins at this stage although the weight of fruit shows it will develop richly. The wine, with its hints of a blackberry future, will be ready to drink from 2020.
This is a generous ripe wine. It is full of rich black fruits that are cut with acidity as well as fleshed out with firm tannins. Dense and still dry, this young wine needs to age further. Drink from 2021.
A ripe rich style of wine, with swathes of black-currant fruits and cushioned tannins, this second wine of Duhart-Milon is full bodied and deliciously rich. The fruit carries the wine with its smooth tannins. Drink from 2022.
Low yields have produced a concentrated wine. The tannins are powerful and dense—a fine foil to the ripe juicy black-currant fruit. The impressive wine is going to take its time to be ready to drink with richness and tight structure. Drink from 2021.
One of the largest vineyards in the Médoc and just outside Pauillac, this estate is also one of the most reliable. This vintage is finely structured with just the right amount of tannin to support the black and red-berry fruits. Fruity and juicy, it should be ready to drink from 2020.
Made of 80% Sangiovese, 10% Canaiolo and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon, this polished red opens with black-skinned berry and leather aromas. The smooth, medium-bodied palate evokes dried black cherries, cinnamon and white pepper, while fine-grained tannins provide elegant support. Enjoy through 2021.
Fruity plum aromas mingle with dark spice, chopped herb and violet notes on the nose of this full-bodied red. On the palate, fleshy black cherry, clove and anise flavors are set against chewy tannins and fresh acidity. It's already approachable but will also offer years of enjoyment. Drink 2018–2023.
Rich, ripe and oaky, this full-bodied wine has loads of sweet blackberry and black cherry flavors, with generous doses of oak spices like cinnamon, nutmeg, wood smoke and dark chocolate. It's bold but complex and will be a lot of fun to drink with red meat.
Owned by the Bernard family who also own one of the major Bordeaux negociants, Millésima, the wine is structured, deliciously fruity and with a series of smoky tannins that will allow it to age. It comes from a vineyard close to Pauillac and that shows in the dense Cabernet Sauvignon that gives the wine its weight. Drink from 2021.
Owned by the Thomas family, this wine has an unusual blend of 50% Merlot and 35% Petit Verdot (with the rest Cabernet Sauvignon). It shows how Petit Verdot can now ripen easily in warm years. The dark color and dense tannins are a counterpoint to the juicy blackberry fruit. They will allow this wine to age well. Drink from 2021.
This is a structured wine that has both firm tannins and ripe black plum fruits. It is concentrated and serious, the wood aging and the fruit tannins giving a lift and richness to the spicy fruit. The estate, dating to the 17th century, has 96 acres. Drink from 2021.
Pure notes of black cherry rise from the glass. The palate comes in with equal purity and quite some concentration. There is a creamy richness countering that fresh crunchy cherry fruit which shimmers and shines. This is medium bodied, bone dry but juicy and wonderfully aromatic, even elegant.
This fruity, aromatic wine is fresh and crisp. It has a strongly herbaceous, citrus character and an intensely perfumed backdrop. Drink now.
Lightly fruity, this all-Pinot Noir rosé just hints at strawberry, but seems overloaded with flavors and scents of pastry crust and vanilla cookie.
Grassy and herbal, this might easily be mistaken for Sauvignon Blanc. There's plenty of acid evident, with lemony fruit that finishes short and tart.
This is a stalky wine. Even though it is full in the mouth, it still has a tight, green character typical of unripe Tannat. The blend is 80% Tannat, 10% Cabernet Franc and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon. Tannins and bell pepper flavors go with the firm structure and the acidity at the end. Drink from 2017.
This green, intensely herbaceous wine comes from Sauvignon Blanc and Colombard vines growing on sandy soil. It is full of lemon and grapefruit flavors that give the wine a tight, almost steely texture. It should be drunk from the end of 2015.
This ripe while crisp wine has juicy red fruits and lively acidity. It is softly textured, smooth and with a full, aromatic aftertaste.
Coming from a San Benito County appellation created in 2008, this wine shows dried blueberry, blackberry, leather and earthy black loam on the nose. Blueberry comes through on the palate, boosted by pepper, tobacco and a bit of espresso.
Subtle, fresh, green aromas like celery and cut grass are followed by light cucumber flavors, a soft texture and short finish. It's a delicate wine at a good price.
Peppery, herbal aromas are gritty and a touch green on the nose. This Syrah-led blend is lean in body and relatively high in acid, with a scratchy palate. Quickly fleeting flavors of raspberry and currant are mildly complex, while the finish is light and fresh.
Loamy, ripe aromas of raisin and prune are neither exact nor direct. This has a heavy, tannic mouthfeel with balance issues. Rubbery plum and prune flavors finish with a soft, spread-out feel.
Saline and grapy aromas comprise the nose on this basic red. Hard tannins create pinch and a rubbery feel, while the flavor profile includes solid but minimally expressive black currant and dark plum. This is perfectly drinkable but hollow.
With light plum and strawberry aromas and almost sweet strawberry and marshmallow flavors, this medium-bodied red may be best with semisweet food like ribs in barbecue sauce or pulled pork. The balance and texture are on the soft side.
Drunken peach, green apple, gray slate and rounded butter notes hit the nose. There is a baking soda minerality on the palate, some sea salt and a tongue-tingling acidity.
Made from 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, this is a full-bodied wine. It has a light tannic character over intense acidity. A caramel underlay cuts down on the freshness and adds some richness. Drink now.
Fresh and fruity, this is perfumed, herbaceous and crisp. A strong citrus character is balanced by hints of peach and pineapple. The wine is ready to drink.
This chunky, full-volume wine straddles the line between soft tropical tones and a cool, crisp character. Hard-pounding orange and grapefruit flavors finish monotone and citric. This is vital but lacks sophistication.
Melon, banana and bath oil aromas announce a layered, citrusy palate, with simple flavors of orange and white pepper. The finish is citric in flavor but not overly sharp in feel.
Pungent, feline aromas of green citrus and passion fruit filter into a citric, pulpy palate. Flavors of mixed citrus fruits, green herbs, onion and passion fruit finish heavy, with a lingering note of pickle brine.
With a light caramel taste, this is a fat while still fruity wine. Salmon pink in color, it has acidity that fits behind the ripe red plum flavors. It should be drunk now.
This is relatively light, with straightforward fruit aromas, flavors of pomegranate and strawberry, and a smooth, soft texture.
Tasted multiple times over a 24 hour period, this remained tart and thin. The strawberry fruit had a powdery quality, and the accents of pepper and dried herb dominated. The wine seems to be quickly drying out.
Muted and diluted, this wine is missing structure and fruit, leaving dullness to the palate. Black currant and blackberry do their best to shine, amid toasty oak.
This is a fruity wine made to be drunk young. It is soft, with a blackberry stalkiness in the background as well as fresh, spicy acidity. Drink now.
Earthy, rubbery dark-berry aromas feed into a lean palate supported by drawing tannins. Like the nose, this tastes herbal and leafy, with generic berry flavors and a touch of mushroom. The finish is light and short.
The wine is all structure and solid tannins, with a dry core and an earthy character that mask the red fruits. Let the wine develop a few months for this youthful excess to blow off. Drink from 2016.
A neutral nose shows generic white-flower notes and yeast. This feels ultra ripe and candied on the palate, while tropical flavors of mango and peach are very ripe and finish plump, with only modest acidity.
Herbaceous and aromatic with a touch of minerality, this is a crisply light wine. It is bright, cool and ready to drink.
An unusual and wonderful blend of grapes has produced a simple and fruity wine. Touches of caramel broaden the crisp red berry fruits and bright acidity. It should be drunk now.
This is a dense and heavily extracted Merlot that is too powerful for its own good. Concentrated and super-rich, the palate is laden with tannins and toasty wood. The wine will remain over the top.
Briny, pickled aromas come with hints of citrus and flower blossom. This fast-aging Albariño is melony in feel, but it lacks the variety's patented kick and acidity. As a result, peach and apricot flavors are fleshy and chunky.
Reddish-orange in color, this is a high-toned, citrus-laden wine that retains fresh flavors of grapefruit and mandarin orange. It stays crisp and dry on the palate, with just a tiny suggestion of its time in neutral oak. Pomegranate and a tang of sour cherry finish things off.
A dense vanilla-bean character coats a nose of seared white peach and toasted nuts. The palate features thick, ripe fruits, preserved lemon, a touch of walnut and a rocky grip.
Saffron and orange blossoms perfume this intensely ripe, almost honey-slick Kabinett. There's a zesty backbone of tangerine acidity, but the palate is a crush of ruddy yellow peach and nectarine flavors. It's a luscious, forward wine to enjoy young.
Deeply yellow in hue, this blend offers thick, ripe and tropically condensed aromas of mango syrup, peach custard, tuberose and dried apples. It's lively on the sip, showing apples, more dried mango, a hint of honey and some nut-based oil flavors.
This blend of 43% Grenache, 32% Petite Sirah and 25% Syrah shows dense berry aromas along with cherry muffins and violets on the nose. The palate offers interestingly chalky boysenberries and a hint of cocoa dust, but is overwhelmed by a slight sourness and cooked fruit character.
Notes dusty mineral permeate through this zesty, lime-scented Riesling. A touch of honey and tangerine lends brightness to the off-dry palate. Light-footed and spry, it finishes moderately long with a murmur of tea tannins. Drink now.
Blended from Yarra Valley and King Valley fruit, this light-bodied Pinot Noir is silky in texture, with a lingering finish. Modest red fruit combines with earthier notes of parsnip. Drink now.
Anchored in fig, plum and berry fruit, this is a substantial effort for both the vintage and the price. It will show best with hearty, cold-weather dishes. Hints of cinnamon and chocolate extend the finish.
Dried orange rind and citrus blossoms perfume this dry yet honey-touched Gewürztraminer. Concentrated grapefruit flavor lends surprising intensity on the palate, all the more enjoyable for an extreme value price.
One of a range of wines under the Homage to Heritage import label, this fruit-driven wine has apple and green plum fruits, sustained by great acidity and a crisp, mineral texture. Drink from 2016.
Lemon and quince flavors characterize this crisp, dry, 100% varietal wine from a single vineyard site. It was fermented and aged in both stainless steel and oak, in addition to concrete egg. High-toned acidity remains sharp on the palate around a medium build and spicy finish.
A classic Douro blend of Touriga Nacional, Touriga Franca and Tinta Roriz makes a harmonious wine that has ripe berry fruits and a soft structure. It is a stylish wine with a fresh fruity aftertaste. Drink now.
With a high proportion of Pinot Meunier in the blend, this is ripe, warm and accessible. Fresh apple and ripe pear flavors are cut by grapefruit acidity. The texture is soft, ripe and very ready to drink.
Made from Pinot Noir, this fresh and light rosé is packed with red berries and lively acidity. It is perfumed, dry and very fruity. Drink now.
Cherry blossoms, strawberries and wet asphalt elements show on the nose of this wine from a property along Vineyard Drive in West Paso. A nice cola zest starts the palate, which lands on cherries and ripe cranberries before fading away.
Aromas of raisin, Oriental spice and resin emerge in the glass. The polished but evolved palate offers dried black cherry, mocha, clove and licorice alongside smooth, fleeting tannins. This has seen fresher days so drink soon.
Spicy, oaky aromas grab attention, followed by black plum and cherry flavors and a firm structure of tannins and acidity. This is full bodied and rather powerful in both flavor and mouthfeel.
One of the bolder, more tannic red blends, this full-bodied wine has cedar and cinnamon aromas, flavors like boysenberry jam and a nicely gripping texture. Well balanced by firm acidity, it stays lively. The wine is made with 46% Malbec, plus Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon.
Blackberry, ripe plum, kitchen spice and moist earth aromas lead the nose. The straightforward, easy-drinking, palate offers black cherry, white pepper and a hint of anise alongside lively acidity.
Wiry plum and raspberry aromas are jumpy and a touch candied. This feels bulky and grapy, with an obtuse body. Salty lightly herbal plum and berry flavors end with a touch of heat along with herbal leftovers.
This blends almost-sweet fruit flavors of strawberry and red cherry with savory and spicy notes, making a nicely complex and multi-dimensional, medium-bodied wine. It's smooth and fruity, with no harsh tannins.
This opens with earthy aromas of scorched soil, overripe plum, leather and a funky whiff of farmyard. On the palate, notes of game, clove and sage join raw red cherry offset by bracing tannins.
Woody and dense at first, this smells bright and fruity as it opens. A solid palate houses lightly toasted flavors of blackberry that turn more peppery and toasty on a fairly oaky finish.
Seductive trails of smoke, cinnamon and char on the nose lead to a palate that's ruddy and rich in black cherry and plum flavors. Supple and plush, it spreads languidly on the palate, finishing with nuanced touches of smoked meat and game.
Harmonious but mild cherry and raspberry aromas are light and nice. This is substantive enough, with rubbery tannins and some chewiness to the palate. Generic flavors of raspberry and red plum finish mellow and easy.
Touches of bramble and smoke meander curiously amid sweet strawberry and cherry in this off-dry rosé. While a bit candied on the palate, it's a juicy approachable wine for casual imbibing.
Despite some grit and tar on the nose, this Rioja opens well with spicy cherry and plum aromas. A standard, mild palate is satisfactory, while lightly roasted slightly briny plum and berry flavors end with a hint of saltiness.
Aromas of cardamom and clove as well as heat make for a challenging nose. In the mouth, heavy fruit combined with chippy tannins create a clipped feel. Ripe berry flavors are a bit jumbled, with oaky spice notes stepping up. A flat chunky finish is missing skip in its stride. This is 85% Malbec with Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah.
Gritty stalky aromas suggest that the original material for this Gran Reserva was not fully ripe. This feels wide chunky and grabby, with harsh tannins. Stalky flavors of herbal raspberry and plum come with oaky vanilla accents and tomatoey spice on the finish.
Opulently dense, this wine opens nicely in orange blossom and caramel apple, followed by a palate that's somewhat incomplete in fruit-flavor follow-up. Concentrated and full bodied, it packs a powerful punch, ending in oak.
One of the winery's tasty bottlings that are odes to Bill Foley's Texas ranch roots, this offers aromas of crushed chalk, fresh apple blossoms and a ruby-red grapefruit peel tartness. The flavors surround a very clean line of lemon juice and lime pith, with more chalk, ripe apples and brisk nectarine. It's still tight and will age well.
Lavishly perfumed with hints of honeysuckle, musk melon and pear, this animated Riesling exhilarates the senses. Juicy and fresh with pristine stone-fruit flavor, it glides effortlessly yet endlessly on the palate. Enjoy now for its gorgeous perfume, but save a few bottles through 2020 to let the stately elegance shine through.
Silky carpets of cherry grenadine invite one into this vineyard-designate, framed by seductive streaks of herbes de Provence and earthy black tea. Juicy and generous on the palate, the wine is also complex and restrained, its finish wrapped in toasty, subtle oak.
This is an exciting wine, simultaneously serious and fun, with a steely minerality and clean nectarine on the nose. The palate is energetic, showing both tight limestone and more deliciously hedonistic notes of Fuji apples and Japanese pear. The acidity kicks expertly throughout.
This medium-sweet wine shows the weight of the clay soils in the vineyard. It's rich, full of spice with a touch of honey as well as lychee and pomegranate. The wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2016.
This is an intensely spicy wine, full of lychee and peppered pineapple flavors. It's rich, also showing a strong mineral texture. Medium sweet in style, it is packed with ripe fruit with a touch of honey. The aftertaste shows a fresher side. Drink from 2016.
Sashi Moorman and Rajat Parr love to pick early, and it shows with aromas of stewed tomatoes, green olives, green cardamom and Eastern European spices. It's very savory and wakes up the palate with vinegar-laden flavors reminiscent of North African tagines, and would make an excellent extra-spice accompaniment to a wide variety of foods. Expect this wine to grow in complexity and approachability 2018–2024.
This Dundee Hills vineyard really shines in 2012, with multi-layered flavors of sweet, spicy, slightly candied fruits. Kirsch, orange peel, smoke and sandalwood play against each other, with a citrus kick to the underlying acidity. Bright and focused through a long finish, this is one to tuck away for a few years. Drink 2017–2025.
The winery's first full Bien Nacido Vineyard showing hits the nose with aromas of buttered, vanilla-speckled toast, cinnamon and lime peels on the edge. Flavors center on peach flesh set against a lemon-lime zing, with a leathery vanilla finish.
The blend of Antão Vaz and Verdelho is livened by Viognier that adds extra richness to this structured wine. The wood aging is still showing, meaning the ripe yellow and pineapple fruit flavors need time to show their full glory. It's full and generous, best drunk from 2016.
Rich aromas of butterscotch, candied apples and hot buttered toast are presented in an appealing, judicious way on the nose of this wine. Meyer lemon and lychee give focus to the palate, which also delivers warm pear and almond flavors.
This deliciously perfumed wine comes from Brand Grand Cru on slopes above the village of Turckheim. It's fresh, mineral and still crisp and youthful. Its sense of texture and tight steely structure partner with fragrant green fruits and layers of acidity. Drink from 2017.
This is by no means a shy wine and yet it is deceptively subtle at first, offering fresh lemon and tangerine aromas behind a first whiff of jasmine. With a complexity of briny sea breeze subtlety, it ventures into caramel and oaky nutmeg, remaining balanced and layered all the while. Enjoyable now, this wine will blossom further through 2018.
Very pretty aromas suggest lychee, Spanish broom, Mediterranean brush and a balsamic sensation. The linear palate delivers nectarine, creamy green apple and savory herb while edgy acidity generates a crisp, clean finish. It closes on an energized mineral note.
Smooth and balanced, this rich wine also shows some of the freshness of this crisp vintage. There is plenty of exotic fruitiness as well as a core of spice. But the ripe and full-bodied aftertaste is easy and warm.
A study in dusty tannins and crisp, classic cassis and cranberry, this wine offers plenty of the beloved herbaceousness of old-school Cabernet, along with a soft-hearted structure and compelling notes of violet and soy. Medium-bodied, it's enjoyable now but has the legs to age through 2026.
Dark ruby in the glass, this wine has a bouquet of black cherry, jalapeño and celery root that continually invites you back for another sniff. There is a terrific balance between fruit and savory flavors, which include black currant, cherry, white chocolate, mint and jalapeño. Smooth tannins go on and on until they are finally punctuated by a bright cranberry note.
Juicy red berry, brimstone, leather, licorice, mint and thyme are just some of the aromas and flavors of this powerfully structured wine. Despite the muscular build, it's also loaded with finesse, boasting firm but noble tannins that accompany the layers of savory flavors. Drink 2016–2022.
Peach blossom, Spanish broom, white flower and mineral aromas create a lovely bouquet. Made entirely with Chardonnay, the savory, creamy palate offers yellow apple, mature pear, nectarine, pastry and mineral alongside fresh acidity. Endowed with depth and balance, this will continue to develop over the next several years. Drink 2015–2020.
The extremely cool-climate Presqu'ile Vineyard delivers an exciting wine, with herb-bomb nose aromas of oregano, thyme, grass and rosemary, with a bit of green apple fruit on the background. There is peppery verve to the palate, where the wine bounces off the tongue with flavors of lime zest, Granny Smith apple and cut grass. It's almost spicy.
Pie cherries that carry a good snap of puckery tartness are the principal fruit flavor . The wine is already rounded off, fruity and buoyant, with generous acidity and a tasty sprinkle of baking spices. The persistence and detail are impressive.
Austria-trained, Santa Barbara County-based winemaker Graham Tatomer is causing a Riesling renaissance, thanks to wines like this with aromas of orange blossom, citrus rinds and hints of gasoline. With flavors of toasted nuts, lemon juice, tangerine pith and chalky grip, this is a great canvas for cellar aging to paint a remarkable wine. Drink 2018–2030.
Syrah superstar Joey Tensley and vintner-importer Alex Guarachi team up on this fairly priced yet banging and inky black bottle. A slightly reductive nose shows dark spice and creosote, with reluctant blueberry fruit. That funkiness evolves into a seductive, soft and lush palate, with the tar element laced judiciously between elderberry and blueberry fruits.
Tobacco, herb, field grass and red berry aromas are fresh and attractive. The palate is gripping, with plenty of length and balance. Raspberry, cassis and herbal, minty flavors finish flush, with a touch of alfalfa and even more raspberry and red currant. Drink through 2018.
This is a remarkable value in a small-production, estate-grown Oregon Pinot. Dark and substantial, though still quite young and tight, it's a juicy, tart, spicy wine with a whiff of chai tea, alongside raspberry, black cherry and red licorice flavors.
The winery's robust blend of Sangiovese, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon, some of which comes from Monte Rosso, is structured and surprisingly high-toned, offering herbal cherry, raspberry, cigar box and peppery spice. Aged in bottle for a while, it's enjoyable now and has the bones to get better; try after 2016.
Very pretty aromas of rose, violet and perfumed berry lead the nose on this concentrated wine. The juicy palate offers blackberry, black cherry, licorice and white pepper alongside lithe, polished tannins and bright acidity. The succulent finish closes on a mineral note.
Made mostly with Cannonau and small amounts of other Sardinian grapes Bovale, Carignano and Malvasia Nera, this structured red conveys aromas of black-skinned fruit, exotic spice, oak and Mediterranean brush. The full-bodied but elegant palate offers dried blackberry, vanilla, roasted coffee bean and savory herb alongside velvety tannins.
Stony peach and mandarin orange aromas are touched up by a note of white licorice gumdrop on this well-cut, finesse-filled Albariño. In the mouth, an elegant dance ensues between minerality, lees notes and citric acidity. Flavors of apricot, peach and melon finish minerally and with a slow but steady fade. Drink through 2016.
Ripe, deep, cedary and mildly raisiny on the nose, this high-alcohol Malbec is generous and full up front, with accents of prune and graphite. The palate is loaded with extracted berry fruit and oak. Flavors of blackberry, mocha, toast and licorice are highly appealing, while chocolaty oak, clove and black-fruit notes push the finish. Drink through 2018.
Already showing signs of the kerosene aromas that comes from aging Riesling, this is a tangy, aromatic and not quite dry wine with white peach flavors and a zesty aftertaste. Drink now.
This attractive, aromatic wine is bone-dry, crisp and fresh. With its white fruits cut by a line of steely acidity, it's a tight, fragrant single-vineyard wine needing to age. Drink from 2016.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon that offers cherry, plum and earthy spice, the tannins soft and supple. This is a wine to enjoy now, aged close to two years in French oak, 20% of it new.
The first to plant the grape in the Santa Ynez Valley, Fred Brander has a current Cab Franc release that hits the nose with black-as-night scents of wet potting soil and black pepper. The flavors are slow to emerge, but blueberry crumble, chocolate and crushed herbs appear with patience.
Aromas recall crushed raspberry, anisette, tilled earth and a whiff of cellar must. The soft palate doles out ripe black cherry, licorice and white pepper alongside polished tannins. It doesn't have much complexity but it's savory and already enjoyable. Drink through 2017.
Attractive and smooth, this is a ripe, broad wine with its soft, juicy red berry fruits and supporting firm tannins. Balanced and fruity, it is ready to drink, finishing with a crisp texture of acidity.
From Château des Landes' old vines, this is a concentrated, solid wine. Dark tannins have dark chocolate and licorice flavors, with a structure that dominates the fruit and needs to soften. New wood aging was perhaps excessive, but give the wine time. Drink from 2017.
While this is a rich wine, it also has a more fruity character that brings out acidity and a streak of freshness. It's firm at the moment, reflecting a need for aging. Dense and full of berry fruits, it will be best drunk from 2017.
A very rich, almost Port-like ripeness and dense black fruits give this wine powerful presence. It has weight and sweet fruitiness that is happily cut with acidity. Tannins provide a light reminder of the chance to age this wine. Drink now and until 2019.
The second wine of Château Pibran, this is ripe, juicy and attractive now. Black and red fruits burst from the glass, giving a rich character. That is balanced with refreshing acidity and a light tannic character. The wine will develop quickly, so drink from 2017.
A wine that is soft, rich in blackberry and currant fruitiness and with a fresh, jammy texture. Youthful acidity is prominent, giving a fresh, juicy character to the aftertaste. At the moment, it is all fruit, so wait until 2016.
With brawny tannins and a taste of tar and oak, this wine is predominantly about dark, black fruit, the spicy finish measured and complementary to the rest of the components. It's a classic barbecue wine.
Aromas of rose petals, blue flower and ripe berries waft out of the glass along with a whiff of farmyard. The ripe palate delivers crushed Morello cherry sweetened up with vanilla alongside drying tannins.
Young and yeasty, this new vintage will benefit from additional time in bottle. The light apple and pear fruit is dusted with a hint of cinnamon. A brief stint in French oak—roughly 40%—shows a pleasant hint of toast.
This is a single-vineyard wine, one of a range of three Rieslings from Schoenheitz. It is attractively perfumed with white flowers and fruit blossom. The acidity and zesty texture balance the off-dry flavors. Crisp apples add to the fresh-while-structured character. Drink now, although it will be better from 2016.
This begins with aromas of herb-crusted, charred pork belly, graphite and shaved wood. A touch of black fruit lingers in the background of the palate, but the stars are black pepper, licorice, hard herbs, black soot, asphalt and very grippy tannins. Wait at least until 2016 for some mellowing.
Tart red cherries mingle with notes of warm toast, cedar and menthol in this bold, richly bodied Cabernet Franc. Bright cranberry notes cut through the midpalate, which is fringed by fine grained tannins, leading to a lingering hint of savory umami on the finish.
Licorice, cinnamon, black pepper and ripe berry aromas take center stage on this structured wine. The palate offers black cherry, anisette and black pepper alongside youthfully aggressive tannins. Drink 2018–2030.
Grapefruit pith, green apple and sea salt make for a striking nose from fruit grown on one of the appellation's older vineyards. Rich flavors of apple cream, lemon curd and salty caramel carry the palate.
Pretty lavender and violet notes entice on the nose of this sparkling Pinot Noir. It's bold in mousse, boasting a dense, mouthfilling foam, yet fresh apple and pear flavors are envigorated by zesty lemon-lime acidity, leading to a long finish.
A spray of fragrant cherry blossoms lifts aromas of ripe black plum, toast and mushroom on this lush, layered red. Big, slightly scratchy tannins line a palate that's ripe with fruit, yet nuanced by earth and bramble. It's bold and unctuous through a moderately long finish.
An intense, inviting fragrance of rose and fresh red berry takes center stage on this bright, youthful expression of Nebbiolo. The palate offers juicy Morello cherry, espresso and white pepper alongside youthfully feisty but polished tannins. A touch of licorice signals the close.
The wine's strong toasty character is balanced by the potential of the ripe fruit and acidity. It's still showing as young, the wood aging covering the fruit. Wait until 2017 and the balance will be right there. This cuvée is harvested from des Demoiselles plots, one of 13 chateaus in the Ducourt family.
Structured and balanced, this wine has great fruits that go with the tannins and rich texture. There is an unusually low amount of Merlot (60%) with 25% Cabernet Sauvignon and 15% Cabernet Franc for the area, yet there is a strongly juicy feel to the wine that gives a generous side. It is developing well; drink from 2016.
Cherry, pepper, grilled meat, mint and smoke make for a great bouquet, and the palate rewards as well, with plum jam and roast beef notes. There are tannins and vibrant acidity, too, washing the palate clean after each sip.
Blackberry and cassis aromas show earthy and herbaceous hints, with coconut and vanilla tones coming on late. The acid-driven palate meets oaky flavors of coconut and vanilla, softened by plum and cherry notes on the finish.
This ready to drink wine seems tailor-made for many—loaded with blueberry fruit, it's a soft, smooth, easy-drinking style. The rich streaks of vanilla and milk chocolate keep it satisfying to the very end.
An all time high of a dozen different grapes are involved in this red blend, yet veteran winemaker Brian Carter wrangles them all into a lovely, fruit-powered, consistent style. Name your berry—it's in there somewhere, along with Bing cherries and a dash of spice.
Varietal notes of cherry, black currant and dried herbs accented by barrel notes of milk chocolate and vanilla. It's medium bodied, showing some grit to the tannins.
Cigar box, spiced plums and wet tobacco give a serious scent profile to this half Syrah, half Cabernet Sauvignon blend. It's surprisingly light at first while dancing on the palate with plum soda flavors, then delivers grippy tannic weight. Pair with prime rib.
A nose of strawberry and mint with a whiff of petrol sets the scene for flavors of cassis, cherry preserves, peach and eucalyptus that never quite coalesce. Soft tannins drop off immediately after a burst of white peach at the finish.
The Sauvignon (64%) comes from Bacchus with the Sémillon from neighboring Dionysus. After starting out slightly reduced, fig and spice aromas lead to tart, lemon and tropical fruit flavors that need more cohesion and concentration to keep them together.
Light, clear and unfiltered, this vineyard-designate has elements of Christmas tree pine, spearmint and forest floor. Crisp on the palate and somewhat austere, it finishes clean and quick.
This entry-level white from the Roblins is fresh, crisp and fruity. The light texture is dominated by acidity and the bright apple and pink-grapefruit flavors. Drink now.
From a 24-acre vineyard with vines aged from five to 65 years, this is an attractively fruity wine. Ripe apple flavors gain even greater liveliness from the twist of citrus zest. It is ready to drink with all its freshness.
As crisp and light as the mountain air of Savoie, this citrus and apple-bright wine offers great fruitiness and a tangy, orange-zest aftertaste. Drink now.
A fairly action-packed nose combines yellow grapefruit, lemon blossoms, nectarine flesh and yellow melon with slate and a shred of bubblegum on the finish. The palate starts quite tight with pear rinds, and then gets riper with shaved apples, bubblegum and tropical elements.
Intensely herbal, this is a ripe, fresh and fruity wine. It has a grassy character that partners with tropical-fruit flavors. Drink now.
With no discernable wood, this is all about tight, perfumed fruits. A stalky character comes from the light body and smoky character. At the end, the black fruits and acidity come into play. Drink now.
This entry-level wine from Domaine Fouassier is produced on limestone soil, giving a crisp, bright and lightly herbal wine. It is clean and clear, packed with citrus and gooseberry flavors. The aftertaste continues the fresh, fruity character.
Crisp and young, this is also a ripe wine. Attractive citrus fruits are given richness by red apple and tangy tangerine flavors. The wine is balanced, very fresh and is ready to drink.
This light Chablis is fresh and packed with attractive young fruitiness. It comes from the plateau above the Serein valley and shows its provenance in the cool-climate crispness. Drink now.
Syrupy red cherry, hibiscus and fruit-punch aromas show on the nose of this good-deal wine, along with touches of graphite and crushed potpourri. It's broad and a touch ripe on the palate, with pomegranate and marjoram notes.
This is a perfumed, fruity wine. Along with its fresh acidity, crisp apple texture and touches of lemon, it offers a tang of orange zest as well as touches of minerality from the gravelly soil of the vineyard. Drink now.
A bit of an experiment, this wine employs whole-cluster fermentation and carbonic maceration. It is intensely herbal and funky, with a strong presence of stem inclusion and black licorice. It finishes a tad flat.
The smoky, peppery aromas and smoky, pomegranate flavors may be atypical, but the wine is well-balanced and enjoyable to drink.
The wine is fresh, so crisp and fruity. Its red currant fruit and lively acidity are rounded out by a caramel flavor that gives richness. The aftertaste though is dry and packed with fruit. Drink now.
Oak-driven power shows on the nose of this wine, with aromas of smoked meat and singed chaparral as well as iron, mocha and wild berries. Rose hips and sour cranberries vie for attention on the palate, where graphite and a slight touch of cedar also come into play.
This basic Tempranillo smells dry and spicy but also dilute and mellow, with a note of cherry and red plum on the bouquet. Fresh, fleshy and fruity in terms of feel, this tastes of simple cherry and plum, while the finish is a touch tannic.
Stalky aromas of shrubs and bushes blend with scents of dried cherry and currant. A hard-smacking, tannic palate delivers basic berry and plum flavors that finish with a riper note of prune along with parching dryness.
The wilted flower and candied fruit aromas are light. The palate has a broad, textured feel, with a touch of sugar on the finish.
Dense and one-dimensional, this opens with faint aromas of raisin, leather and a whiff of spice. The evolved palate offers stewed plum, a green note of unripe cherry, powdered sage and a hint of licorice. Raspy tannins create an abrupt, astringent finish.
This plump, medium-bodied rosé is a blend of two-thirds Syrah and one-third Mourvèdre. It's a fruit-driven style, driven by hints of peach, cantaloupe and bubble gum, that should have broad appeal.
Minerally white-fruit aromas lack specificity. This is fresh but standard in feel, with briny flavors of nectarine, apple, citrus pith and nut skins. A dilute finish is fresh but thin. Why this blend of Sauvignon Blanc, Airén and Verdejo costs what it does is beyond comprehension because it smells, tastes and feels generic.
Warm, fruity and ripe, this offers a good balance between a ripe, creamy, yellow-fruit character and juicy acidity that refreshes and gives a crisp aftertaste. The wine is totally ready to drink.
Light, bright and fresh, this wine is ready to drink. Crisp apple and lemon flavors are lifted by tangy acidity. Juicy and very fruity it has a perfumed aftertaste.
While smoke and char notes are prominent on the nose, there's plenty of concentrated blackberry and cherry flavor in this medium-bodied red. It's fleshy and rich on the palate, but balanced out nicely by zesty strikes of cranberry acidity and fine, feathery tannins.
Whiffs of butter and vanilla in the aroma lead to a soft and supple wine that tastes like baking spices and cherries. It's very polished and almost soft in texture.
This Serbian 100% Portuguiser offers scents of dried cherry, dried herbs and fresh tarragon, and follows up with tastes of red plum and dried strawberry.
Punchy plum and raspberry aromas are light and fresh, as is the palate, which introduces jumpy acidity to the equation. Like the nose, this tastes of basic red fruits, cherry and plum in particular, while the finish is persistently fruity. This is 54% Tempranillo and 46% Garnacha.
This is a bright-fruited wine with lively acidity and apple flavors. It has a creamy texture, a touch of spice and a lemon zest aftertaste. Drink now.
The tannins are hard and strong. It's not undrinkable, but it is hard to enjoy, despite a solid core of black currants and cassis liqueur. The finish is bone dry and astringent. Drink now.
Pure fruit flavors and zesty acidity mark this wine. It's rich and ripe in orange, apricot and papaya flavors, with little or no oak influence.
This light wine has vanilla flavors from wood aging, fresh red fruits and soft tannins. Acidity gives wine poise and an elegant touch. Drink from 2015.
The extreme dryness and minerality at first give this wine a Chablis-like interest. Then you find lemons, limes and apricots, framed in acidity and herbs. Drink up.
It shows the variety's dryness, acidity and light, silky texture, with lemon, lime and gooseberry flavors that finish tart and spice.
Recalling the zesty style from New Zealand, it offers aromas of cantaloupe and crushed tomato vine along with exotic fruit that all carry over to the palate. It has a crisp, refreshing finish.
This young wine is in your face now with strong acidity, powerful oak and jammy apricot, tangerine and green apple fruit. It's all too much of a good thing. It may be showing better by early 2015.
Lightly tannic and attractively fruity, it's ready to drink. It has a soft structure, red fruits and a finish that is full of bright acidity.
Here's a pretty, easy-drinking wine that reveals aromas of Granny Smith apple, hay and hints of exotic fruit that carry over to the palate. The ripe fruit is brightened by fresh acidity that leaves a clean finish.
This is a big, fruity, oaky Chardonnay. What it lacks in subtlety it makes up for in sheer power. The flavors of apricots, tangerines and limes, with smoky oak influences, are rich and forward.
There's something rustic about this Cab. Partly it's the tannins, which are fierce. Partly it's the alcohol, which sticks out and gives the wine a burn. Yet it's extraordinarily ripe and opulent in black currants, with the liqueur headiness of crème de cassis. The hot alcohol suggests it will not age.
Aromas of pear, yellow apples and pineapple carry over to the palate along with a banana note. The juicy palate is balanced by bright acidity, making this perfect for everyday fare from lightly seasoned fish to pasta topped with tomato sauce.
It opens with a delicate fragrance of yellow spring flowers and exotic fruit. The juicy palate offers up pear, honeydew melon and banana peel with a hint of nut on the finish. Simple but well-made.
A new luxury tier from Mendocino Wine Company, the folks who also produce the Parducci wines, Moniker Pinot is softly aromatic, leathery in dark berry fruit and dry, made in a big, rich style. Fruit is sourced from Anderson Valley, and also from inland Potter and Redwood valleys.
This barrel-aged Soave conveys aromas of candied citrus, pineapple, and toasted oak. The palate delivers butterscotch, sugary vanilla and lemon drops in a low-impact, muted style.
A light-drinking, high-acid white that's crisp with layers of floral-laced citrus and herb. An enjoyable sipping wine or one that'll pair easily with fresh seafood.
Crisp aromas of zesty citrus fold in touches of brine and bitterness. Fresh and peppery on the palate, it has pyrazinic flavors of bell pepper, arugula and passion fruit. A juicy, briny, mildly bitter finish is typical for Leyda SB.
Somewhat rustic aromas recall soil, ripe black berries with a whiff of farmyard. The simple, straightforward palate delivers juicy black cherry and a hint of baking spices. Pair it with hearty pasta dishes or pizza.
Scratchy, spicy aromas and a touch of juniper accent red-berry scents on this everyday Cabernet. The mouthfeel is dry, fresh and shows tangy acidity, while racy, edgy flavors of plum, spice and green herbs finish zesty.
Subtle aromas of yellow peach, golden apple and honeydew melon lead off. However the palate is rather lean, with citrus and mineral notes alongside bracing acidity but not much fruit richness.
Berry and currant aromas are jumpy and fruity in nature, while in the mouth, creamy oak creates a sticky feel. Candied, barrel-driven flavors of vanilla and clove outlast the wine's fruit content on the finish.
This wine is dry, with a hint of oaky vanilla and buttered toast. Rich orange, peach and honey flavors are brightened by a burst of citrusy acidity.
Beneath the come-hither packaging and name, this Zin offers velvety tannins and smoky fruit and spice, finishing with a powerful hit of alcohol and leathery cedar.
Intensely ripe raspberry and cherry pie flavors mark this wine. Oak brings even greater richness, in the form of buttered cinnamon toast. The finish is dry, and there's a good burst of acidity. The alcohol is a little hot, but still, it's a nice, silky wine for drinking now.
This shows the fleshiness of Merlot. But it's also enormously tannic, with a mouth-numbing astringency, and the finish is severely dry. With black cherry and herb flavors, it wants an hour or two in the decanter, but it's not an ager.
Made from one of the star grapes of Vinho Verde, this is a ripe, creamy wine. It has hints of lemon zest, along with grapefruit and a herbal aftertaste. It is crisp and ready to drink.
Great bursts of red fruits come strongly through the tannins of this powerful and structured wine. It's fruity and ripe, although an herbal element suggests a more green aspect. Tannins need to finish softening, so wait until 2015.
With ripe, jammy blackberry and plum flavors, gently touched with smoky oak, this is a nice Cab for drinking now. Smooth and silky, the tannins will work well against grilled beef.
Ripe in tropical fruit, apricot and Meyer lemon flavors, it shows plenty of toasty oak. It's dry and creamy but not particularly complex. Drink up.
Blended with 12% Sauvignon Blanc and coming from a mixture of Les Collines, Goff and Seven Hills vineyards, this wine brings aromas of lees and fig that are followed by lightly creamy well-balanced fruit flavors. It brings an elegant styling.
The aromas offer notes of cocoa, herb, cedar, cherry and barrel spice. The palate is somewhat barrel-forward but otherwise shows a pleasing sense of balance along with a lingering finish.
Sourced from a top vineyard in the Eola Hills, this offers ripe strawberry fruit set with ample acidity and proportionate tannins. It's plump, forward and nicely finished with a streak of mocha.
Faint red apple and lemon scents show on the nose of this wine. Its soft, easy palate, enlivened with slight spritz, shows the same appetizing, freshly-cut red apple fruit. Light-bodied, charming, easy and fresh.
Baked plum, French oak and menthol aromas meld with earthy whiffs of leather and undergrowth in this wine. The firm, linear palate offers dried black cherry, prune, licorice and espresso flavors, framed by taut, fine-grained tannins. Drink soon to enjoy the remaining fruit richness.
All coming from Burgess Vineyards, unusual aromas of gun smoke, purple fruit, herb, baking spice and ham hock lead to softly textured fruit and savory flavors. It brings plenty of intrigue but it's not for all tastes.
Made entirely from Nero d'Avola, this opens with black-skinned berry, freshly turned soil and cooking spice aromas. The soft, juicy palate offers blackberry, carob and clove flavors while rounded tannins lend a smooth texture. Enjoy through 2019.
Mild aromas of butter, hay and sea water feed into a crisp fresh palate that's punchy and solid. Lightly salted briny white-fruit flavors are classic for a fino, while this offers hints of vanilla and white pepper on the back end.
Crafted from a mix of 48% Syrah, 45% Grenache and 7% Mourvèdre, this aromatic rosé is spicy and bursting with star fruit, citrus, apple, pear, apricot and more. It's a lively full-bodied wine with a smooth finish.
A stony, wet cement-like aromas meets Anjou lime and jasmine touches on the nose of this bottling from a winery recently acquired by O'Neill Vintners. The palate leads with a dollop of acidity and slowly releases lemongrass, Asian pear and ripe nectarine flavors, cut with a tense streak of lime.
This blend of Pinot Bianco, Friulano, Sauvignon and Ribolla Gialla has oak, butterscotch and pressed acacia flower aromas. They carry over to the tangy, linear palate, along with pineapple and citrus zest flavors. A toasted almond note leaves a lingering, rather bitter finish.
This textbook Friulano opens with alluring chamomile flower, herb, ripe orchard fruit and nut aromas. The rounded palate delivers pear, white almond and sage hints that lead to a tangy finish.
Rich texture and generous fruit flavors make this wine feel full bodied and mouth-filling. The aromas suggest lemon peel and lime juice, while the flavors veer more towards honeydew melon. All that fresh fruit lingers on the finish.
Savory sage- and cress-like herbal notes mingle with ripe pear and yellow plum fruit on the nose of this winie. The palate delivers that rich fruit in a slender frame, making for a juicy, refreshing experience.
This is one of the entry-level wines from this producer. It shows the ripe, soft side of Malbec without compromising on the firm structure and mineral edge that is natural to the grape and the appellation. The wine is developing easily and quickly, with bold black fruits and acidity. Drink now.
Abundant cherry notes show on the nose and palate of this wine—red, black and very ripe. It's juicy, fresh and straight-forward, with lovely, peppery spice. A picnic wine par excellence.
This wine's delicate nose offers white spring flower, Mediterranean herb and wet stone aromas. They carry over to the fresh palate, along with fruity green apple and pineapple notes while a savory mineral note backs up the finish.
Light, fresh and floral, this bottling from the Los Gatos single-vineyard specialists shows honeysuckle, Gravenstein apple, wet stone and marzipan scents on the nose. The palate is framed by vibrant acidity and a grippy texture, with caramelized apple as the predominant flavor.
Floral melon and peach aromas are mellow. This feels round, with citrusy acidity cutting into the body. Basic grapefruit and apricot flavors are friendly, while this is a touch foamy on the finish.
Banana, honeydew melon and honeysuckle aromas lead the way while the generous palate doles out pineapple and white peach flavors. A candied nectarine note backs up the fruity flavors, alongside tangy acidity.
It's somewhat odd to find a reserve-level Pinot Noir done entirely in neutral oak, but here it is. Pretty cherry fruit comes wrapped in tart acids. The tannins are light and suggest drinking this now rather than aging it further.
This cuvée has more complexity than its companion releases, perhaps owing to the inclusion of 10% whole clusters and/or the use of native (wild) yeast. Citrus, orange flesh and peel, and tart raspberry fruits are finished with a tannic burst.
Green and yellow pear peel notes accent this wine's yeasty, savory nose. The palate has spritz and, rather than amplifying those pear notes, leads with lemony freshness. Lovely, light and dry, it almost bounces with freshness.
Gisborne wines are poorly represented in the U.S., but this is a good introduction. Mouthwatering scents of bergamot, hickory smoke and peach lead the way, followed by similar flavors on the palate in this medium- to full-bodied wine. Hints of cashew and underripe pineapple creep in on the crisp finish. Drink now.
This wine has interesting, fragrant tobacco and new-leather aromas as well as ripe fruit flavors that are backed by appetizingly firm tannins. Cedary, spicy new oak accents blend nicely with its black cherry and cola flavors, lingering long into the finish.
A relatively new entrant to the American market, the 2016 from Glover Family offers subdued aromas of melon rind and fig, while the flavors most resemble white grapefruit. It's an easy-drinking wine with a crisp, tangy finish that just needs more complexity to reach the next level.
Gritty aromas of tire, road tar and black fruits are common to Bonarda wines. This has a crisp firm angular palate braced by taught acidity. Raw flavors of tomato, red plum and hard spices are savory and finish with gusto.
Despite initial yeasty, bready aromas, this benchmark mass-market fino has popping acidity that adds spine and zest to an otherwise oily feeling palate. Lightly buttery white-fruit flavors are mildly salty on the finish, sort of like saltines.
Named after a group of astronomical stars know as the Kids (as in goats), this wine is smooth and ripe. It has rich red fruits that have a juicy character and plenty of acidity. It is a fine refreshing wine that is ready to drink now.
The Dubard family has produced a fine and ripe wine. Perfumed and with tropical fruit flavors it is a rich wine, packed with fruit and also finely textured. It has weight, yellow fruits and fine acidity. Drink from late 2017.
A 50-50 blend of Inzolia and Chardonnay, this has pleasant aromas of yellow flower and a whiff of tropical fruit. The fresh, simple palate shows white peach and citrus while bright acidity gives it a clean finish.
Slightly high-toned hints precede nuances of pear and lemon. The palate is light, dry and crisp, finishing with a fresh, clean lemon note.
Round and fruity, this opens with mildly sweet flavors of melon and pineapple. The quick finish turns flat and slightly sour.
Soft notes of earth and gentle red fruit appear on the nose. The palate is very soft, smooth and centers on autumnal earthiness rather than fruit. Its pleasing backbone of freshness gives direction to the softness.
Opening with aromas of citrus blossom and acacia flower, the straightforward palate offers yellow apple, nectarine and chopped herb. Fresh acidity produces a tangy finish.
Aromas suggesting honeydew melon, exotic fruit and a hint of tomato leaf lead the nose. The simple palate is a bit less expressive, offering grapefruit and a hint of white peach alongside lively acidity.
Thin fruit flavors seem overtaken by the barrel flavors. The wine spent nine months in one third new French oak—not excessive by any means, but the fruit just isn't up to it at the moment. More bottle age may bring up the light apple into more substantial focus.
A lightweight effort with admirably low alcohol, this quaffable wine offers apple sauce flavors, hints of toasted almonds, and a touch of lemon oil. It slips comfortably into a Pinot Grigio style rather than the fleshier Pinot Gris more often found in Oregon.
Black cherry and plum aromas are solid. This is chunky and heavyset, but comfortable across the palate. Generic plum and berry flavors are pure, while this finishes plump, chunky and with a hint of chocolate.
Very ripe, very full bodied and very tannic, this wine is bold and tasty. It has raisin and dried plum aromas, a flavor that is warm with alcohol, and a mouthfilling texture.
This might be a touch volatile at first, but saucy tomato-like aromas are offset by fresh red-plum notes. A tight and tannic palate softens with time in the glass, while berry flavors carry herb and spice notes onto a lightly herbal finish.
Earthy herbal aromas tinged with honey and citrus start this intense but balanced retsina. On the palate, the wine offers herbal and tropical fruit flavors with a delicate, spicy spin. Pair with grilled fish, robust cheeses.
Lightly gritty, stalky and earthy on the nose, this blend offers additional aromas of wild berry fruits, spice and tomato. A slightly heavy, grabby palate offers roasted, salty blackberry flavors followed by notes of leather and meat on the finish.
Aromas of white flowers and ripe banana lead the way to flavors of tart green apple and melon. The finish is pleasant but slightly acidic.
Aromas of orange zest, apple cider and yeast come in front of a plump, slightly wayward palate with citric acidity. Generic citrus flavors finish lemony but with acidic scour.
This is a juicy, medium-bodied wine that gushes with cherry and ripe plum flavors, and has an easy texture without much tannin. It's nice and smooth and easy to appreciate.
Smoky, stalky plum, cherry and tea aromas set up a dry, full-sized palate with herbal raspberry flavors touched up by briny salt and woody pepper notes. A racy, salty finish reflects cool-climate origins.
The producer ferments partially in new Acacia barrels, as well as in tank, with the result a mix of floral and fruity melon with firm acidity and a medium build. It's still very much in the throes of that oak.
This ruby-colored Romanian Pinot Noir has scents of black plum and red cherry and flavors of bright red cherry before a tart finish.
Lemon zest, citrus blossoms and peach aromas lead the way to tropical fruit flavors in this Romanian Pinot Grigio. It is light bodied with a crisp finish.
This is a forward, slightly sweet-tasting wine, with flavors of cherry candy. The up-front fruitiness leads into some drying, astringent tannins, with notes of tea and tobacco.
A softly earthy tone is all the nose gives away. The palate is brisk, neutral and has both freshness and a slightly bitter edge. Drink soon.
This offers subdued aromas suggesting orchard fruit and pressed yellow flower. The straightforward, rather lean palate offers citrus, saline and a hint of green pear alongside fresh acidity.
Toasted oak, citrus zest and honey aromas lead followed by a balsamic note. The palate offers walnut, oak and the barest hint of butterscotch but it lacks fruit richness.
Made from the local Sciaccarellu grape, this is a delicious, light and perfumed wine. It has tight acidity to go with the red currant flavors and the crisp texture. The wine is poised and refreshing.
This wine is tangy and textured with light tannins, a bite of citrus acidity and plenty of fruit. It's bright and has a juicy, lively aftertaste. Drink now.
Largely neutral on the nose, then tangy and still fresh on the palate, this drink-now Viura is clean but unexciting. Flavors of generic citrus finish firm, with a pithy aftertaste.
Straightforward red-fruit aromas suggest cherry and plum. Rubbery, pinching tannins are the adhesive for this punchy young Rioja that tastes of raspberry and cherry and finishes steady.
Aromas of herbal red fruits, tobacco and vanilla are basic and modest. This has a wiry, acidic mouthfeel and flavors of mixed herbs, tomato, pie cherry, red plum and olive. A fresh, racy finish is tangy and tomatoey.
Fresh lemon and lime flavors are juxtaposed by dusty bramble and herb notes in this savory off-dry Riesling. Finishes briskly with a touch of green herb. Drink now through 2018.
An intriguing oak spiciness on both the nose and the palate makes this medium-bodied wine interesting without overpowering the focused and vivid raspberry and red cherry flavors. The wine's texture is lean, braced by fine-grained tannins that give support and balance. Best after 2018.
Spicy musky notes hover above scents of canned peaches. On the palate, these rich peach notes are framed by pleasantly bitter notes of pith and peach skin. The characteristic 2014 freshness makes this bright and sprightly and creates an off-dry finish to the concentrated palate.
This is a generous wine, made in small quantities in Pomerol. Ripe tannins and concentrated dark fruits are packed into a rich structure of juicy now-mature Merlot. This is an opulent wine, ready to drink.
Initial charred gritty aromas become more yeasty, round, complex and friendly with airing. This feels solid and moderately full in body, with dry yeasty neutral flavors that aren't particularly fruity. A dry, subtle finish is classy and long.
The nose on this bottling is very familiar and approachable, with tons of baking spices like clove, star anise and vanilla alongside red cherries. The same red fruit upholds the palate, which is nuanced by eucalyptus and bay leaf as well as a graphite minerality.
Fiesta is the lightest, most fruit forward of the four different Tempranillos from Abacela. In a great year such as this, it's also substantial and authoritative, with deeply driven flavors of red and blueberry fruit, a whiff of oak and slightly grainy tannins. This wine clearly over-delivers for the price.
Medium-bodied and moderate in acidity, this earthy exploration of clove, cardamom and strawberry-rhubarb is complemented by a depth of black tea flavor. A well-composed, structured wine, it stays bright and fresh on the finish.
A slight apple scent perfumes the nose. The palate expresses more tart apple fruit and shows a central line of taut lemony freshness. The flavors are very clean and might need a little cellar age to come into their own. The finish is clean and dry. Drink now through 2020.
An earthy hint on the nose cloaks ripe and charming red-apple fruit. The palate comes across as more diffuse but has ample freshness. The body is powerful but dry, characterized by the texture of apple peel. The lemon freshness on the dry finish is lasting.
This is a solid Pinot Noir for just $30, with clove- and vanilla-laced cherry pie notes on the nose, evoking warm pastry crust. Deep pomegranate and blackberry flavors show on the palate, as does more baking spice, crushed slate and wet clay minerality.
This doesn't appear to be the strongest recent vintage of this wine, but it remains a benchmark for McLaren Vale Shiraz. Hints of vanilla and tobacco leaf add nuance to a mix of berries ranging from red raspberry to black currant, but there's also a hint of bruised fruit and a green toughness to the tannins. Give it some time in the cellar. Drink 2020–2030.
Made of 60% Merlot, 20% Cabernet Franc, 10% Cabernet Sauvignon and 10% Syrah, this offers heady black currant, plum and clove aromas. The smooth, juicy palate delivers ripe black cherry, tobacco and licorice flavors, with smooth, silky tannins. Enjoy through 2020.
This is most interesting, layered with strawberry fruit, sweet straw and light tannins. It's deceptively light, yet elegant and able to sustain itself on through a compelling, structured finish.
This is a silky-smooth and integrated wine, with firm, structured tannins that provide support without distracting. A wealth of brawny baked berry, tar and chocolate flavors reveal themselves over time, while subtle, deep clove and dried herb scents lie beneath.
Red berry, chopped herb, toast and a whiff of French oak are some of the aromas that take shape in the glass. The palate is taut but elegant, offering bright wild cherry, licorice and vanilla flavors, while tightly wound, fine-grained tannins leave a firm finish. Give this time to unwind and fully develop.
This creatively labeled bottling by Herman Story alum Chris Kiranbay uses 70% whole cluster fruit to produce a complex nose bursting with strawberry, kola nut, mulberry, elderflower and maraschino cherry aromas. The palate starts with mulberry fruit, growing more serious as it opens, with slate-inflected textural tension, finishing on cinnamon spice.
Savory pepper and grilled beef aromas make this wine appetizing, its rich berry and ripe plum flavors bringing excellent concentration and depth to the palate. It's big and bold, yet polished. Firm tannins interlacing with ripeness and spiciness to keep it balanced and help propel a lingering finish.
Inspired by co-winemaker Eli Parker's trips to Australia, this is simply a fun and tasty sparkling red, with rose, clove, black plum, and graphite notes on the nose. Ripe berry flavors round out the palate, but tangy plum skins and a slate-driven mineral tension keep it serious.
Its prime location near Archery Summit and Domaine Drouhin marks Nysa as one of Oregon's most sought-after fruit sources. Mark McNeilly (of Mark Ryan Winery) has chosen it for one of two vineyard designates for this new project. Sweet baking spices and raspberry jam are the hallmarks here, offering immediate appeal, while retaining the structure to age for another decade. Aim for an optimal drinking window from 2019 through 2024.
Here on display are all the elegance, finesse and ultimate power possible in wines from this exceptional AVA. Tart raspberry fruit, stiff tannins and supporting acids are nuanced with citrus, herb and a light touch of vanilla. Drink this from 2020 to 2030.
Dark in the glass, this blend of 75% Grenache and 25% Syrah is rich and appealing, made in the typical Paso style. Vanilla, cola, spice cake and black cherry aromas lead to a palate laden with milk chocolate, more black cherry, and star anise flavors. The tannins are soft and lush.
In 2014 this vineyard designate was further subdivided by clone. The Pommard bottling pushes big fruit front and center—a juicy mix of blood orange, red berries and cherries. There's a certain stiffness to the tannins still, but overall it's finely proportioned and should be enjoyable through the mid-2020s.
This is an expertly balanced wine from Temecula, showcasing region's potential for Grenache. Rosewater, cherry juice and cherry blossom aromas are lifted by herbal touches of marjoram and crushed peppercorn. Fennel, thyme and oregano flavors kick off the palate, where strong acidity carries raspberry and red berry flavors into a complex and elegant finish.
This opens with dry underbrush, sun-baked soil and French oak aromas. The palate is equally brooding, its dried black cherry and blackberry fruit brushed with licorice and espresso flavors. Assertive, close-grained tannins leave a firm finish. Drink 2020–2027.
A pretty soft-focus wine, this opens gracefully with cherry lollipop fruit, accented with chocolate-coated orange peel. It's smooth, almost silky, showing just a hint of the granitic minerality that typifies this AVA. The wine spent 10 months in 42% new oak.
Red berry, toast and black spice aromas lead the nose, accented by whiffs of espresso. The palate offers licorice, clove, dried cherry and vanilla notes, while a backbone of fine-grained tannins provides support.
Star anise, forest floor, mature dark-skinned fruit and a whiff of menthol perfume this structured red. The taut, full-bodied palate offers dried black cherry, licorice and pipe tobacco flavors, framed by firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2020–2027.
Still young and tight, this breathes open slowly, with bright and expressive raspberry fruit. There's a pleasantly buttery edge to the mouthfeel, and the tannins, though still stiff, are polished and nicely balance out the finish. Drink 2018 to 2026.
Full bodied and lavishly oaked, this wine boasts gorgeous shadings of brown sugar, clove and cinnamon layered over cassis and red berries. The plush finish lingers, folding in plum and vanilla. Drink now–2023.
Forest floor, leather, tobacco and menthol aromas take shape in the glass. The palate is tense and vibrant, offering raspberry, pomegranate, licorice and espresso notes, bolstered by tightly wound tannins. Drink after 2020.
This firm wine has structure as well as enticing sweet red berry fruits. Dynamic and fruity, it has a dark structure that impressively expresses this solid terroir. Drink from 2018.
This single-vineyard bottling comes from Pinot Noir expert Norm Yost. Baking spices and cinnamon greet the nose, followed by sweet-tart boysenberry and freshly turned soil. On the palate, black licorice leads, followed by an impressively smooth, black cherry-laden midpalate, ending with tantalizing spices on the back end.
From the village of Blagny, considered part of Meursault, this full, rounded wine has a generous character, full of ripe fruit. It is given a crisper side by good acidity, and shows both freshness and weight at the end.
The wine has the right weight and power. It comes from a blend of different parcels, bringing out the complexity of the vineyards. Black fruits are soft and generous, supported by tannins as well as licorice and wood flavors. At the end, fresher red fruits show.
In this generous and opulent wine, weight and richness accompany acidity and power. Ripe yellow and white fruits are given a touch of spice and new wood. It's gorgeous, but will be better after aging. Drink from 2018.
A blend of 90% Carricante, 10% Catarratto and Minnella, this delicious golden-colored wine seamlessly weaves together sensations of lemon drop, nectarine, dried apricot, ginger and cinnamon alongside bright acidity. It's a sophisticated wine boasting depth and complexity.
This cellar-worthy wine is enjoyable now, rich and powerful in bright red and blackberry fruit, spice, toast and black licorice. Concentrated and layered, the tannins are thick and interwoven, and the juicy texture offers balanced acidity. Streaks of chocolate and earthy menthol on the nose and palate give distinctiveness. Enjoy now through 2024.
An earthy, Indian-inspired spice rack of scents like star anise, cardamom and cedar surround a black cherry backbone on this single vineyard offering from the Corralitos area south of Santa Cruz, overlooking the Monterey Bay. The nuanced experience continues to the palate, where a core of sour cherry is layered with herbs of thyme and oregano, followed by a minty finish.
This blend is 50% Cabernet Sauvignon and 25% each Merlot and Cabernet Franc. Complex old-vine characteristics emerge in a graceful, lengthy, detailed and subtle wine that weaves together herb, tobacco, olive and brambly berries. Drink now–2020.
There's a touch of Riesling-like petrol to the nose of this best-barrels Chardonnay from Testarossa, as well as dried citrus, fresh roasted cashews and Chinese almond cookie. The palate is very soft, with ripe fruit such as baked oranges. A nicely buttered touch bolsters the refreshing, mouthwatering acidity.
Now up to a whopping 62 cases (from a single barrel in 2009), this explodes into life with sleek, densely packed blueberry fruit. The potent power of the fruit is framed in polished tannins, and cuts a deep path through the palate. Drink now or cellar until 2020–2022.
Made from 80- to 100-year-old vines, this compelling, earthy wine initially opens with funky aromas that burn off in the glass to reveal leather, tilled soil, blue flower and ripe berry. The palate delivers black and red cherry accented by white pepper, cinnamon and black pepper. With firm but velvety tannins, give this a few more years to let it fully  develop; drink 2016–2026.
Jaboulet's Condrieu program takes a huge step forward with this release, which artfully combines barrel fermentation and aging with just-ripe Viognier into a compelling and cohesive whole. The toast and baking-spice elements provide the right amount of restraint to the tropical fruit notes, which then finish with tremendous, mouthwatering length. Drink now–2020.
Perhaps the best Sizeranne I've ever tasted, the 2010 displays extra levels of richness and structure. Plum and coffee-bean notes are lightened and brightened by hints of cherries and raspberries that linger easily on the velvety finish. Delicious already, it should continue to drink well through at least 2020.
With a bright purple color and integrated but potent aromas of oak, mineral, schisty earth and black fruits, this is a rock-solid yet approachable and delicious wine. A structured palate is firm and braced by fine acidity, while flavors of wild herbs, licorice and blackberry finish with a touch of molasses as well as brown sugar and anise. Drink through 2019.
Roughly equal parts Grenache, Syrah and Mourvèdre, this is probably Lirac's top wine at the moment. It's big and rich in the mouth, leaving behind a coating of dark fruit, hints of meaty savoriness, baking spices and softly layered wood.
Rarely does a Merlot in this price range display this much power and concentration. Sourced from several vineyards, it's ripe right to the border of raisin flavors, with generous dollops of maple syrup and brown sugar adding further complexity. Still fruit-driven, yet with plenty of barrel flavor, this massive Merlot can take your richest, tangiest barbecue sauce.
Rich and sweetly fruity, this wine wields intense power. Red fruits are initially opulent and pleasurable, but then the wine begins to show solid structure and concentration. The final texture, with its tannins and fruit in harmony, is impressive. Drink from 2018.
Solid and tannic, it perhaps lacks huge weight but shows elegant structure and rounded tannins. The wine is already deliciously fruity, and will charm as it ages. Black fruits are right up front, the tannins a fine supporting act. Drink from 2017.
The name comes from the fact that this vineyard was once a truffle bed, high up the slope of Puligny-Montrachet. The wine shows wood, attractive fruitiness and layers of spice and almonds. It is rounded, the soft texture balanced by acidity. Drink from 2016.
Violets, leather, vanilla, subtle oak and black berry sensations all meld together in the glass. The rich, concentrated palate delivers ripe black cherry and blueberry extract accented by mocha, cinnamon, clove, white pepper and mineral. It's soft and already extremely accessible, with velvety tannins, but will age well for the next five years or so. Drink now through 2019.
A terrific effort, this wine highlights the features that make Condrieu special. First is the incredible perfume, like honeyed stone fruit and mango. Second is the richness and texture of the wine, imparting great palate presence. Third is the vibrance of the finish, providing the counterweight to the wine's ripeness and weight. Drink it over the next few years.
Aromas of tilled soil, blue flower, new saddle leather, underbrush and woodland berry waft from the glass after pouring this savory wine. The spicy palate offers creamy black cherry and raspberry layered with white pepper, clove and cinnamon. The juicy palate is supported by firm, polished tannins and fresh acidity.  Drink after 2016.
The power and richness of Port fill this extreme—and extremely delicious—Zinfandel. It is very deep in color and vivid in aroma, like the scent of ripe grapes at the crusher on harvest day. It fills the mouth with apparent sweetness that lingers long on the finish. Perfect match for after dinner with blue cheese and toasted walnuts, or a cigar.
From vines more than 50 years old, this is a full-throated, concentrated wine. Solid tannins and rich black fruits combine with structure and a sweet, ripe aftertaste. The acidity at the end gives just the right lift. Drink this powerful wine from 2017.
This is one minerally wine for Rioja. Stony scents blend with latex and Band-Aid, while lemon peel and hard-driving berry aromas define the nose. Monster tannins are absorbed by the wine's broad foundation, while flavors of smoke, oak, plum and wild berry finish savory and long, with a final shot of oak-based clove. Best from 2018–2025.
Composed and elegant on the nose, this classic Priorat blend of Grenache and Carignan opens with minerally berry aromas and a touch of fine oak. The palate is tight, intense and well etched, with dark, toasty flavors of schisty black fruits. Licorice flavors and herbal notes guide the finish on this excellent Spanish red. Drink through 2019.
From the famous Chablis Grand Cru, this wine lives up to the vineyard's reputation. Steely in character, packed with a firm structure and tightly textured, it shows a citrus side that will be refreshing and attractive as the wine ages. But it does need time, so wait to enjoy until 2017.
This wine takes white Châteauneuf-du-Pape to rare heights. Mouthwatering aromas of toasted nuts and pineapple set the stage for a full-bodied, rich, succulent wine experience whose finish lingers. Yet despite the wine's undeniable heft, it never seems overly weighty. Drink this blend of 80% Roussanne and 20% Grenache Blanc over the next couple of years.
While showing some smoky wood, this wine is more about pure fruitiness with yellow fruit flavors given a crisper shot with acidity. Full-bodied and rich, the wine keeps a refreshing brightness. The aftertaste is crisp and fruity.
While the wine is very ripe in character, it is also finely structured and generous while still keeping a sense of proportion. It is dense, full of blackberry jelly flavors that are balanced by a final burst of acidity. Drink now, although better from early 2017.
A young and fruity wine that is made to be drunk young. It has soft tannins, red berry fruits and a juicy fresh character. Full of fruit with just a light structure, it can be drunk now.
Pungent oily, tropical aromas of pineapple and melon come with a distant shot of turpentine and/or chemical cleanser. In the mouth, this is round and melony, with solid framing. Citrus and lychee flavors finish with a light coating of bitter pith. Drink right away.
Savory aromas of beef jerky blend with raisin, grainy oak and sauciness on the nose of this Syrah-led blend. An exceedingly ripe palate feels inky with low energy. Prune, raisin and cassis flavors are encumbered by heavy oak, while the finish tastes both chocolaty and like stewed plum.
Rubbery aromas of pencil eraser are also smoky and odd, with the suggestion of clove. In the mouth this is pinched at first, then more oaky and creamy, but also rubbery. Roasted plum and stewed berry flavors finish tannic, with latent berry and cherry notes.
From vines in the northeast corner of the Gers, this wine is fruity, fragrant and crisply perfumed. It is light on the palate, dancing with fresh acidity and a lightly herbal character. Drink now.
Considering both grapes in the blend are known for their tannic structure, this is ripe and open. It is fruity with red berry flavors and acidity to balance. There is a round soft aftertaste. Drink now.
This has a lively, albeit unconventional entry, with aromatics conjuring up gingersnap cookies. Coffee, blackberry and a potent whiff of barnyard take over, the earthy flavors muting the fruit.
Very little of this bottling was made. It's an experiment in making a white wine the way one would a red, fermented with skins and seeds, then aged eight months in new French oak. It's not for everyone. Cloudy and funky, it's teeming with acidity and yet somewhat dense on the palate, the fruit muted in favor of a taste of flowers and clay.
On the plus side, this is a well-ripened, full-bodied wine, with a mix of pear and citrus. It's lightly spicy and drinking at its peak, broad and just a little flat on the palate.
Quite shy in aromas at first, the nose on this wine focuses on apple candies, lime blossoms and Anjou pear juice. The palate shows slightly sour apples and tangy lime juice, with a crisp pear backbone.
Aromas of baked plum, charred earth, melted chocolate and Asian spice lead the nose. The evolved, extracted palate offers raisin, a hint of exotic spice and a green note of powdered sage that leaves an astringent finish. This has seen better days so drink soon.
This is a refreshing, lemon-flavored wine. Attractive crispness comes out of the mineral texture and perfumed acidity. Light and still young, this will age to be ready to drink from late 2016.
A blend of Arinto and Antão Vaz, this is refreshingly fruity. It has pineapple as well as citrus flavors, an attractive blend of freshness and crispness. The aftertaste is bright, full of lively acidity.
This opens with aromas of new oak, burned rubber, raisin and vanilla. The one-dimensional palate offers candied date, fig, mocha and licorice alongside bracing, grainy tannins that leave a mouth-puckering finish. It lacks the fruit richness needed to stand up to the oak spices and astringent tannins.
Light green-apple fruit and gentle highlights of cinnamon are in place, though this wine feels a little flat on the palate. A quick finish brings a hint of plastic.
There is a good balance in this wine between fresh berry fruits and a firmer structure so the tannins are present while never hiding the attractive fruitiness. Simple and one-dimensional, it is still attractive and ready to drink.
An immediately attractive fruity wine that's half-and-half Touriga Nacional and Cabernet Sauvignon. Neither of the two grapes' natural tannins show in this wine with its soft texture and blackberry fruitiness. It is ready to drink.
Vivacious notes of yellow plum and pear are shaded in tones of savory herb and earth in this dry light-bodied Riesling. Lemon and tart tangerine acidity jolt the midpalate into a brisk finish. Drink now.
This wine reflects a fruity, young and fresh style. It's packed with bright red fruits; a soft texture hints at minerality and great acidity. It's made to be drunk young, without any wood aging, so drink now and until 2017.
Peachy aromas are less than perky, while in the mouth this is lemony, narrow and citric. Flavors of lemon and tangerine finish with stony mineral notes but also a drawing citric acidity.
While intense aromas of mango, honey and blossom are appealing, this unusually structured Gewürztraminer seems at the same time quite tart and caramelized. It's lithe and lean with moderate concentration of peach and tangerine flavors.
Interesting and complex aromas suggest new oak, tea, leather and red cherry. Tangy cranberry flavors and a crisp feel in the mouth make this wine enjoyable in a lean style.
Floral, grapefruity aromas and sweet honey and peach flavors make this a very effusive and fruity wine. Though rich with flavor it's not cloying and is light bodied.
Produced in Anjou, this is a totally crisp wine, with lemon and fresh gooseberry flavors that just burst from the glass. It is bright and fruity, with just a touch of mineral texture to add interest at the end.
Fresh and fruity, this simple, easy-drinking red doles out black cherry, blackberry, white pepper and clove. Racy acidity brightens the juicy fruit flavors.
Earth and bramble notes intensify the savory, mineral character of this dry, spry Riesling. Lemon and lime revitalize the midpalate and lead a zesty finish. Drink now.
Fresh, light and fruity this is attractive young Chablis. It is soft, dwelling on the fruit rather than any texture. Crisp and with citrus and green apple flavors, it will be ready to drink easily by mid-2016.
Nectarine and white peach aromas are pithy, pointed and briny like sea water. This feels citrusy and pulpy, while zesty citric flavors of grapefruit, scallion and green herbs finish with residual pithy briny notes.
Sharply etched in pineapple and Meyer lemon, this wine retains a brightness of fruit and acidity throughout, never overly impeded by oak. A subtle, earthy herbal streak plays in the background.
Cherry and plum aromas are generic but largely clean. This tastes sweet and buttery, with creamy, lactic notes which accent cherry and berry flavors. A candied tone of residual sugar creates a sticky sensation on the finish.
Lightly toasted and animated up front, with mixed berry, asphalt and gritty aromas, this feels tough, tannic and chewy. A blend of herbal berry and green notes infiltrate standard raspberry and cherry flavors. This finishes slightly bitter and with notes of green herbs.
Burnt smelling like charred steak, this also offers raw oak scents along with boysenberry aromas. A dense, pounding, tannic palate holds blackened, peppery flavors of blackberry. A smoky finish smolders with peppery spice and hard tannins.
The nose on this isn't very expressive, but eventually reveals aromas of cooked fruit and a whiff of barnyard. The palate delivers black pepper and cured meat but the fruit has completely dried up. Fleeting but drying tannins give it an astringent finish.
This soft, lightly ripe wine has red fruits and an easy texture. It is fruity and fragrant with just the lightest hint of Malbec tannin. Drink now.
Offering one of the more creative gimmicks yet, this bottle comes with a small pencil to decorate the mostly blank front label. The wine inside conveys aromas of lemon rinds, light peach and salt that give way to flavors of pineapple, apple blossom, yellow pears, sea salt and appropriate tanginess.
Earthy aromas of saline, minerals and iodine dominate herbal fruit notes. This has a tomatoey, high-acid feel and rubbery tannins, while flavors of salty, briny red plum and currant finish similarly. A good mouthfeel is the highlight on this briny Monastrell.
A smoky, slightly rubbery aroma is off-putting at first, until the black pepper and dense fruit flavors kick in on the palate. This is light to medium bodied, yet packed tightly with astringent tannins.
An extremely pale color and light fruit salad aromas are followed by fresh, gentle texture and banana and cherry flavors. Light in alcohol, delicate in mouthfeel and short on the finish, it's a mere wisp of a wine.
Off dry, fizzy and fresh, this is a classic crisp and clean Vinho Verde, based on the Loureiro grape. It is light and bright with lemon and sugar water flavors, and is ready to drink now.
With the lightest, freshest tingle on the tongue, this is an off-dry wine that is crisp and fresh, combining citrus with sweetness. It is light-bodied, bright and ready to drink.
This totally fresh rosé is crisp with bright acidity, red currant fruit flavors and lively, bone-dry aftertaste. It's a fine summer wine to drink now.
Gritty, oily aromas are gaseous, rubbery and tough to dig into. The palate is heavy but acidic, with sulfuric notes and flavors of grapefruit and citrus pith. Tangy, grabby and tannic on the finish.
Touches of menthol and pine flavors set this wine apart from the crowd, dominating the fruit flavors from the aroma to the finish. It is medium to full bodied, tastes a little earthy and smoky, and is relatively lean in texture.
Rather lean in flavors, it shows a bit of herbal, savory aromas and tastes slightly earthy and vegetal like fennel or celery. But those aspects are subtle enough that it still makes a good sturdy white wine that is neither too rich nor too soft.
This is a largely extracted, puckering wine, rich and full-flavored in blackberry and vanilla. The tannins make it difficult to discern beyond its density and grip. A majority of Cabernet Sauvignon, it also employs Malbec, Petit Verdot, Merlot and Cabernet Franc.
Leafy, mulchy red-fruit aromas are low on pop and freshness. In the mouth, it's the opposite: this feels lean, shearing and snappy. Flavors of red currant, tart plum and pie cherry finish with hard-driving acidity and a sense of tartness.
White flowers, spun honey and graham cracker aromas introduce this wine that will be a hit with those who prefer a sweet touch to their bottles. The palate is very sweet, even treacly, with honeysuckle nectar, sugared apples and candied orange flavors. There's just enough acidity to somewhat balance the sugars.
This easy-drinking blend of Sangiovese and Merlot offers red cherry, strawberry and a hint of anise. Simple and rather diluted, it's made to be drunk young, with brisk acidity and fleeting tannins.
This is billed as the only Chardonnay planted in the coastal Landes region (not a difficult claim). It is soft, ripe and easygoing in character with a hint of citrus and acidity. Drink now.
Fairly light aromas of red cherry juice, licorice and dried violets show on the nose, following by a rather light density on the palate as well. Hints of minty cherry and charred wood also arise, as do grippy tannins that vanish quickly.
All black fruits, the wine is dominated by black currants and stalky tannins. It is fresh with lively acidity and berry flavors and a generous texture. Drink from 2016.
Coppery pink, pale and light in both color and flavor, this just doesn't deliver much pleasure. Light lemon and even lighter strawberry fruit is sharply acidic, and the finish almost invisible.
This stalky, red fruit flavored wine has an attractive, ready-to-drink fruitiness. It is soft with light acidity and only a hint of tannins. Drink now.
Vanilla salt-water taffy and melted butter are undercut with lime juice on the nose of this wine. Once sipped, it has a slightly waxy mouthfeel along with flavors of dried apples and underripe lime rinds, giving a slightly sour character.
Lactic oak, shoe polish, bell pepper and boysenberry aromas are distinctly green. Creamy in feel, the palate brings blackberry, carob and herbal flavors.
The nose isn't very expressive on this barrique-aged Sangiovese but funky whiffs of barnyard and scorched earth eventually emerge in the glass. The muddled palate offers dried plum, vanilla and a gamy note alongside gritty tannins.
This is a light and simply fruity wine, showing lively acidity and black currant fruit tones. It is soft on the palate and only lightly disturbed by a dry tannic background. Drink now.
Rusty and translucent in color, this smells downright grassy and green, with tobacco and leafy notes as prominent as dried cherry scents. Following the nose, this is lean and grating, with tart plum and herbal flavors. Given 2009's overall warmth, this green, underripe reserva is surprisingly difficult.
Pink in color, this fruity, spicy wine conveys a juicy red currant fruit character. Clean and fresh, it's packed with fruitiness and topped by intense acidity.
At age 20, this fantastic wine proves the serious aging potential of top Etna Biancos. Boasting intriguing depth and complexity, it delivers layers of lemon drop, dried apricot, ginger, dried Mediterranean herb and star anise with an intriguing balsamic note and a mineral-driven finish.
Still young and sappy, the tart raspberry and cherry fruit carries tangy highlights of citrus rind and wet stone. Clean and fresh, it's a perfectly balanced wine from a difficult vintage, and has the structure to age through 2021–2023.
Dark violet-red in the glass, this Rhône-style blend offers bewitching aromas of black cherry, anise and crème brûlée. Its mouth-pleasing texture envelops flavors of black cherry, anise, clove and vanilla custard. The smooth, lasting finish presents a bright note at just the right moment.
Powerful flavors show strongly through the youthful spice and fruit. This is a rich wine, concentrated with a dry side that contrasts with the tropical ripe fruits. It needs aging, so don't drink before 2017.
The chalk soil of Champagne makes a reappearance in the Pfersigberg vineyard. In this wine it shows as elegance and crispness. That's not to take away from the rich, rounded texture and exotic fruits; it adds complexity and great style. Drink from 2017.
From a vineyard holding in the midst of prime Pinot Noir country, Maffei intrigues in ripe, hearty plum, black cherry and kir aromas and flavors. The tannins are soft and nicely managed, accented by notes of nutmeg and black pepper.
Bergfeld is named for the winery's historic owner and the land he originally planted around the winery in 1873. Given to old-world airs, the wine is chalky in black fruit, tobacco and mocha, as well as soft, substantial tannins. Generous in juiciness and structure, it has an herbal quality on the finish.
From a recently planted site on the Oregon side of the Columbia Gorge, this combines tangy, raspberry fruit concentration with elegance. Spicy and vertically stacked with flavors, it moves from brambly, peppery fruits into a long finish with highlights of cinnamon and spice. The vine cuttings are from Lonnie Wright's original (1893) planting.
A rich, evocative, sensual aroma greets the first sniff. The mix of purple fruits, hints of baking spices, and tannins dusted with chocolate is irresistible. Sweet toast comes up next, with pretty fruit flavors in proportion, and a taste of brioche to finish. Aging until 2016–2017 should open it up further.
Despite the moderate alcohol, this is a rich wine in every way. It has generous fruits—tangerine and bitter-orange marmalade. It's layered with minerality and needs to age. Drink from 2017.
This is one of famed Pinot Noir winemaker Lane Tanner's first stabs at this grape, and she succeeds strongly in this brand with business partner Will Henry. Aromas of cherry, bark, mint candy, dried rose petal and sagebrush give way to an inviting berry pie flavor, followed by a slowly emergent herbal grip that's reminiscent of pine sap.
This powerful blend of 23% Malbec, 20% Carmenere, 20% Cabernet Franc, 16% Cabernet Sauvignon, 14% Merlot and 7% Petite Verdot delivers layered aromas of olallieberry, grape candy, sage, anise and lava rocks. Purple fruits dominate the palate, with complexity provided by creosote and violets, along with ample tannins and acidity.
Despite the challenging harvest, this Cabernet excels in juicy blueberry and plum tones. Dusted with cinnamon on the finish, it shows a level-headed use of oak, imparting a soft, expressive texture marked by acidity. Enjoy now or cellar through 2026.
This is a very approachable and tasty wine, especially for a grape that can be so tannic when young. Aromas of cola, chopped mint and cherries translate to a fruity and minty palate, with just enough tannins, a nice acidic spice and a bit of woodiness on the finish. It's very well measured.
Aromas of red berry, brimstone, white pepper, Mediterranean herb and a whiff of leather come together in the glass. The creamy palate offers wild strawberry, juicy cherry, cinnamon and savory herb alongside bright acidity and firm, polished tannins. It's vibrant, with compelling tension. Drink 2015–2022.
The winery's smaller Zin projects are fantastic, and this is a great example, with aromas of strawberry extract mingling with mint, anise and leather. The palate is even more savory, with mushrooms, olives and herb-crusted roast beef, benefiting from ripe plum fruit as well.
Plum and pomegranate play off each other in this monument to Howell Mountain, the wine dense and Rubenesque, suggesting further time in cellar, through 2022. With 1% Cabernet Franc blended in, the tannins and oak are well-integrated, spiking in tobacco and licorice.
The producer continues to impress with this estate Russian River white, an impressive ambassador for the region in its exuberant layers of apricot, honey and vanilla. The substantial texture and concentration stand out and add complexity. A lift of lemon meringue and spice complete the finish.
Bright aromas of raspberry and dried rose petals highlight this wine from the southwestern corner of the county, along with black tea, sage and shiitake mushrooms. The flavors are supple and elegant, with light strawberry, pencil shavings and sagebrush making for a fun, energetic wine that really lets the vineyard shine.
Whiffs of pressed apple intensify on the palate along with shades of smoked nuts, stone and steel in this deeply mineral wine. It's honeyed and slick on entry, yet bristled by a shock of lime acidity that rallies the finish endlessly.
This stylish, tightly wound, concentrated effort features yellow fruits adorned with layers of toast, butter and caramel. It will continue to open gracefully over a 48-hour window, suggesting that it may be cellared successfully. But if you have the patience to decant/aerate properly, it is immensely enjoyable right now, and a very fine value.
Planted in 1974, the Daphne vineyard begins tight and steely, with a peppery herbal character. After extended breathing, it turns softer, more open, pretty and tongue-coating, with pleasing baking spice highlights.
Cherry marinated in spirits, toast, grilled sage and a whiff of leather are some of the aromas of this firm red. The savory palate offers ripe Morello cherry, juicy strawberry, cake spice and eucalyptus alongside polished tannins and fresh acidity. The lingering finish closes on a licorice note. Drink 2016–2022.
An elegant expression of Nerello Cappuccio, this opens with aromas of violet, raspberry, plum and baking spice. The velvety, vibrant palate delivers juicy black cherry, raspberry, orange peel and a hint white pepper alongside smooth, polished tannins.
Whiffs of pine frond and moss lend a cool, alpine air to the nose of this medium-dry Riesling, but the palate is all lemon drops and sunshine. Juicy citrus flavor is uplifted by a stream of acidity that's invigoratingly fresh.
Ripe, deep, cedary and mildly raisiny on the nose, this high-alcohol Malbec is generous and full up front, with accents of prune and graphite. The palate is loaded with extracted berry fruit and oak. Flavors of blackberry, mocha, toast and licorice are highly appealing, while chocolaty oak, clove and black-fruit notes push the finish. Drink through 2018.
Led by Merlot, this blend is softer and more accessible than the Helmsman. Mocha, black cherry and brown sugar come together in a lush, creamy wine that finishes on a note of brandied cherries. Drink now–2020.
Bold in body and richly, almost viscously, textured, this is one powerful dry Riesling. Lime and lime zest seem to percolate from nose to finish, imbuing a citrus sheen over layers of mineral and wet stone. It's brawny and intense, yet elegant throughout.
A bit softer and suppler than the Helmsman, this Merlot-led blend features aromas of brown sugar, cinnamon, dried herbs and cassis. More cedar emerges on the palate, giving it a classic Bordeaux blend profile. Drink now–2020.
Deeply flavored, dense and toasty, this full-throttle bottle punches up flavors of cherries and roasted walnuts. Tannins are thick and have a hint of char, and the big flavors are all in proportion.
With no discernable wood, this is all about tight, perfumed fruits. A stalky character comes from the light body and smoky character. At the end, the black fruits and acidity come into play. Drink now.
This entry-level wine from Domaine Fouassier is produced on limestone soil, giving a crisp, bright and lightly herbal wine. It is clean and clear, packed with citrus and gooseberry flavors. The aftertaste continues the fresh, fruity character.
Crisp and young, this is also a ripe wine. Attractive citrus fruits are given richness by red apple and tangy tangerine flavors. The wine is balanced, very fresh and is ready to drink.
This light Chablis is fresh and packed with attractive young fruitiness. It comes from the plateau above the Serein valley and shows its provenance in the cool-climate crispness. Drink now.
While smoke and char notes are prominent on the nose, there's plenty of concentrated blackberry and cherry flavor in this medium-bodied red. It's fleshy and rich on the palate, but balanced out nicely by zesty strikes of cranberry acidity and fine, feathery tannins.
Whiffs of butter and vanilla in the aroma lead to a soft and supple wine that tastes like baking spices and cherries. It's very polished and almost soft in texture.
This Serbian 100% Portuguiser offers scents of dried cherry, dried herbs and fresh tarragon, and follows up with tastes of red plum and dried strawberry.
Punchy plum and raspberry aromas are light and fresh, as is the palate, which introduces jumpy acidity to the equation. Like the nose, this tastes of basic red fruits, cherry and plum in particular, while the finish is persistently fruity. This is 54% Tempranillo and 46% Garnacha.
This is round, ripe and full of rich fruitiness. It has a tannic structure that gives the wine concentration and a tight texture. The fruit is less obvious making this much more a rosé for food. Drink now.
This wine has a sun-dried quality to the grapes, which are moderately exuberant in cherry and leathery earth. It's lean, dry and robustly tannic.
Creamy aromas of custard give off a soapy smell. This feels citric, while nectarine and orange flavors are a bit funky. On the finish, this is more fresh and direct than flavorful.
Though shy on the nose, this popular bottling delivers intrigue on the palate. Light red-cherry flavors are bolstered by pepper spice and a chalky tannic grip. Even for geeky connoisseurs, it's a good bottle for later in the night.
Herbal aromas give this young wine its freshness, with bright acidity and crisp texture. Green fruits are laced with a touch of minerality and freshness. Drink from 2017.
A floral red-fruit nose opens this juicy yet basic Tempranillo. Raw edginess on the palate comes with candied plum and raspberry flavors, while this finishes fresh, with a modest salty note.
The vineyard of the Giennois is close to the city of Orléans, making it the most northerly Loire vineyard. This wine with its cool, fresh character has a light tannic character and brings out red fruits as its biggest attraction. It has a fresh, crisp, juicy aftertaste. Drink now.
This brawny wine opens with subdued aromas that recall leafy underbrush, roasted coffee bean and a whiff of stewed plum. The warm, monolithic palate offers prune steeped in spirits, toasted nut, dark spice and a green note of powdered sage alongside raspy tannins that leave an astringent finish. The heat of evident alcohol on the close throws it further off-balance.
Lighter in color, this wine packs fruit punch, cola and ripe cranberry into the nose. Flavors mix juicy strawberries with Earl Grey tea, marjoram and orange rind elements.
This dark-colored, extracted Priorat smells largely of oak and mint on top of lightly herbal, green-leaning plum and currant. The palate is wiry, with citric acidity that creates tartness to go with monotone red-fruit flavors. Rough, tough and crisp on the finish, with tomatoey acidity and hard tannins.
Rustic and tightly wound in tannin and oak, this shows reduced qualities and a core of big-boned concentration.It offers more tobacco and tea than acidity and fruit.
Good balance, traditional flavors and a great price make this wine an easy-drinking gem. It tastes dry and slightly tannic in a good way that gives it texture, and has Merlot's typical plum and light herb notes.
Aromas of prune, raisin, tomato leaf and rose petals lead to a somewhat heavy palate with a stewy character and big tannins. Baked, raisiny red-fruit flavors come with a note of caramel or molasses, while desiccated berry flavors dominate the finish.
Aromas of gooseberry are out in front of kiwi and pineapple. The flavors are fleshy in feel, sweetened by a touch of sugar.
It's fun to try this wine from an Italian grape variety that is rare in California. It tastes unusually lean and tangy, with earthy aromas. Dry and taut on the palate, it has a mineral or metallic tinge to the rather austere fruit flavors.
This value-minded wine is made in large quantities and maintains a classic edge of red berry and cedar, grippy on the palate, but able to open up in the glass. It'll serve well as a midweek house wine or staple for larger gatherings.
A candied, buttery aroma, ripe fruit flavors and full body characterize this wine. It seems to have a strong spicy influence that comes with firm tannins and an almost-sweet character.
This smoothly round and full-bodied wine offers a taste of the tropics, combining pineapple, payapa and coconut in tone and flavor. The oak (only 20% of it new) is pronounced, though on the way to integration, .
Aromas of grapeseed, light blackberry and clove-cinnamon spice touch the nose on this lower-alcohol Syrah. It's quite light and easy to quaff, with flavors of baking spices, cranberry and boysenberry, but ultimately a bit simple.
Common cherry and berry aromas lead to a fruit-punch palate with some stickiness. This tastes ripe, with nothing distinguished beyond basic berry flavors. Sweet plum and berry notes steer the finish.
Aromas of cherry Kool-Aid and fruit punch offer a sprinkle of spice in the background. This is simple in feel, with citrusy acidity. The red-fruit flavors are easy going and the finish is mild.
From the Cognac region, this ripe, totally fruity wine has no suggestion of wood aging. Attractive apple and light citrus flavors are ripe and right up front. Acidity adds freshness to the end. Drink now.
This is pure Syrah, sourced from Les Collines in Walla Walla and the Benches in the Horse Heaven Hills. Tart berry and red plum fruit anchors it with sharp acidity. The fruit core has not quite melded with the barrel flavors of caramel and chocolate—give it another couple of years in bottle before popping the cork.
This already-peaking Chardonnay, which benefits the One Hope Foundation, gives insight into the varietal's aged nuances, with aromas of marshmallow, hazelnut and dried mango and apricot. The flavors are all secondary, from salty macadamia nuts to dried fruit, with pithy bitterness and baked cake crust.
An intense, inviting fragrance of rose and fresh red berry takes center stage on this bright, youthful expression of Nebbiolo. The palate offers juicy Morello cherry, espresso and white pepper alongside youthfully feisty but polished tannins. A touch of licorice signals the close.
Extremely sharp scents of freshly cut grass morph into tart Granny Smith apple and hints of guava on this bottling from one of the most striking vineyards in California. It's bright and lively on the palate, proving easy-to-drink, uncomplicated and fresh.
Lemon-lime and lemon curd mark this wine. The lemon theme continues throughout the layers of apple, vanilla and oak, the oak not perceptible until near the round, voluptuous finish.
This wine is medium straw in color, with aromas of perfumed talcum powder and green apple on the nose. It is smooth on the palate, with white stone fruit flavors and a soft finish.
Already very approachable, this is a rich wine that still manages to preserve its freshness, with acidity from the blackberry and damson-fruit flavors. With Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon in the blend, the tannins are strongly present, however the delicious fruit tones are decidedly in charge. Drink now.
2011 was the first vintage for the winery's new winemaker, Tim Bell, who surely had his hands full in a challenging year. The result is impressive, a medium-bodied, brambly taste of cassis and thyme that offers nice minerality and balance and finishes in black tea.
Ripe, sun-baked berry aromas are toasty and charred on the nose. This feels big, grabby and tannic, but also jammy and generous. Flavors of ripe black fruits are widespread, with a touch of saltiness on the back end. That salt character carries onto a big, jammy finish. Drink now.
A rich golden yellow in color, this offers warm vanilla aromas that tighten into pineapple, lemon-lime soda and roasted nuts. Rounded fruit flavors are coated in buttercream, with a slightly hot finish. Great option for the oaked Chard crowd.
Ripe black-fruit aromas are dark and slightly herbal on the nose. The wine has a lively palate courtesy of a bolt of acidity, while toasty flavors of berry, olive and carob are slightly warming, with residual spice notes driving a toasty finish.
This soft, ripe Pinot Noir manages to balance the fragrant red fruits with a gentle massage of wood aging. A firm layer of tannins gives structure and it is ready to drink.
Ripe berry, black plum, toasted oak and espresso aromas lead the nose on this young wine. The palate offers black cherry, prune, roasted coffee bean and sage alongside fresh acidity. Tightly compacted and still raspy tannins need time to soften. Drink after 2017.
The wine balances the sweet spiciness of Gewurztraminer with a good level of acidity. That gives the wine a light touch while allowing the rose and bergamot character of the grape to shine through. The wine is ready to drink.
Rose petal, blue flower, menthol and wild berry aromas lead the nose. The palate offers up ripe black cherry, licorice and white pepper framed in firm but refined tannins. Enjoy through 2015 to capture the fresh fruit flavors.
A stunning squeeze of fresh tangerine enlivens both the aroma and palate of this crisp wine that's high in acidity and dancing in refreshing tangents of lemongrass, kiwi and pineapple. Enjoy poolside or on a patio.
Orange blossoms perfume this voluptuous yet elegantly structured Pinot Gris. It's lush and ripe in white peach and pineapple flavors, but jolted by a stream of tart lemony acidity. Finishes moderately long.
A 100% Cabernet Sauvignon from one of Sonoma County's newest appellations, a district that spans Sonoma Valley's eastern ridges near Napa's Mount Veeder. Cross Creek Vineyard has long been the source for this winery's Cab, a fresh, juicy taste of black fruit with managed tannins and hints of mint chocolate.
A hearty bottle of Chardonnay with the simplest label you could imagine, it emphasizes earthy, oaky, buttery flavors over fruit components. This is medium-bodied, dry, rich in texture and moderately tannic.
Good, solid fruit flavors fill out this light-colored but full-bodied Grenache. It has ripe plum, tart cherry and cedar nuances; a broad, firm texture helps flavors linger on the finish. It's the kind of wine that tastes better with each sip.
This ripe, smooth and generous wine also has a good sense of elegance. Acidity, ripe berry and plum fruits and a core of tannins all hang together well to give a wine that's both dense and sophisticated. Drink from 2016.
While the wine certainly has structure, its main character, from the dominant Merlot, is the juicy, stalky fruit and jammy, ripe black plums. It does have an edge of bitter chocolate and a layer of wood. When that softens, it will be a ripe, broad wine. Drink from 2017.
A small property owned by Château Carbonnieux, Haut-Vigneau has produced a serious while still fruity wine. Its spicy wood is attractive and gives a warm character to the cherry and red berry flavors. The wine will certainly age over the medium term, so drink from 2016.
Rich and structured, this shows the plushness of today's Bordeaux Merlot. Ripe berry fruits, dark plums and a touch of vanilla give spice and round off the texture. It's juicy, still developing and best from 2016.
The wine is mature, with smoky acidity, autumn leaf aromas and a sense that is beginning to dry out. With its memories of berry fruits and the arrival of a leather texture, it should be drunk now.
Light amber in color, this five year old Sauvignon Blanc has aromas of caramelized pear and grilled pineapple. This style of wine pairs perfectly with strong, earthy cheeses.
Aromas recall toasted oak, espresso, rubber and roasted herb. The palate offers raw red cherry, vanilla, grilled sage and black pepper alongside astringent tannins.
The winery makes a line of Cabernet Sauvignon from various AVAs of the Napa Valley, highlighting each on the label. From warmer Calistoga, this mouthCab is brambly black fruit-forward with layers of coffee and mocha.
Whiffs of pine forest lend a pristine alpine feel to this bold dry Riesling. The palate is concentrated, with sun-streaked tones of pineapple and peach balanced by bristling lemon-lime acidity. The finish is moderately long with a lingering honeycomb note.
Cherry, plum and earth aromas form a sound bouquet. This Merlot is full, round and well balanced. Flavors of black fruits are helped along by integrated spice and earth tones, while the finish shows ripeness and a smooth texture.
This Pinot Grigio from Trentino—part of which is barrel aged—offers aromas of pear, apple, oak and flint. The linear palate delivers restrained lemon peel, apple and oak sensations in a lean but elegant style.
Dusty mineral and herbaceous green notes juxtapose curiously with slightly overripe apple and peach flavors on the palate of this dry Riesling. Soft tangerine acidity lends a sunny, refreshing tone on the finish.
This is a ripe, lemon and orange zest-driven wine. It has a lightly mineral texture that gives structure as well as a cool feel. It's a delicious wine already but will be better by late 2014.
This rather sweet wine leads with heady floral aromas that recall red and white roses. The off-dry palate offers lemon zest, pink grapefruit and ripe apple alongside fresh acidity. Try this as an apéritif.
Here's your basic everyday Zindandel at a good-value price. It's dry and tannic, with spicy flavors of blackberries and plums. Easy to drink, and it gains traction as as it warms in the glass.
Aromas of toasted oak, vanilla and butterscotch carry over to the palate together with red apple skin and pear alongside fresh acidity. Not much fruit richness, but it's crisp and linear.
Not very expressive, it opens with subdued aromas that recall lemon peel and toast. These carry over to the palate along with a note of butterscotch. There's not enough fruit richness to support the racy acidity.
This wine opens with vanilla, smoke, lemon peel and pear. The linear palate offers tart yellow apples, yellow grapefruit, graphite and a hint of vanilla alongside bright acidity.
Notes of milk chocolate accompany black currant, green olive and toasty oak flavors in this dry, creamy 100% Cabernet. It's not an ager, but will be fine through 2017.
This easy wine will pair nicely with slightly sweet fare, such as sausage risotto, Chinese pork and chicken dishes, or a ham sandwich with Dijon mustard. It's crisp in acidity, with flavors of honey, apricots, lemons and limes.
Dry and tannic, this Pinot is heavy. It has strong flavors of blackstrap molasses, tea, black cherry jam and oak, and is ready to drink now.
Pineapple and mango dominate this full-bodied, ripe wine. Soft and given a lift by lime juice, it is a well-balanced blend of Arinto and Fernão Pires. The aftertaste is fresh and fruity.
This fruity blend of Merlot and Cabernet Franc offers aromas of red currants and raspberry along with whiffs of bell pepper. The palate delivers vibrant blackberry and black cherry along with hints of black pepper. It's straightforward and made to be enjoyed young.
Delicate sensations of pear, citrus and peach team with crisp acidity that leaves a clean finish. Pair this with shrimp scampi or pasta topped with fresh vegetables.
Subtle floral aromas and whiffs of tropical fruit lead to a lean palate that offers peach, papaya and mango alongside bright acidity. Pair it with lightly seasoned seafood dishes.
A fruity, lightly tannic blend that comes from a region just to the east of Bordeaux itself. It has ripe berry fruits, a sense of dry structure enveloped with juicy black currants and is finished with crisp acidity.
This soft, round and fruity wine is styled for immediate consumption. Light fruit flavors of apple and Asian pear are finished with a lick of lemony acid.
This simplest, freshest and lightest of Chablis styles has a refreshing lemon character, a light touch of melon and crisp acidity. Drink now.
Lemon and creamed pear flavors give this open, soft wine attractive fruitiness. The fruit is everything here, with acidity adding a crisp edge to the rounder textures. It is ready to drink.
A blend of 90% Sangiovese and 10% Merlot, this discloses weedy, leafy aromas. The one-dimensional palate offers toast, coffee, sweet chocolate and dark berry. It's not an an ager so enjoy soon.
Made from old vines and aged in small barrels, this wine is dominated by oak. Opening aromas include wood, toast and a hint of butter and apples. Oak extract takes center stage on the palate which also reveals citrus peel and a hint of apricot and mineral, as well as firm acidity. It lacks fruit richness.
This is a warm, ripe and spicy wine. It is full of red fruits, black currant and soft tannins, with great acidity at the end. Drink now.
A warm, ripe and fruity wine that holds a mix of crisp apple acidity and richer yellow fruits. There is just enough acidity to give freshness while the wine has a richer, full character. It should age until 2015.
This attractive and fruity rosé is very dry and rich. With red fruits, a sense of texture and just a hint of tannin, this is a food rosé, firm and ready for summer 2014.
The texture is off, resulting in a rustic feeling, despite lush flavors of raspberries, figs and sweet, toasty oak. Mainly the problems are jarring tannins plus alcoholic heat on the finish.
Buttered toast, honeysuckle and vanilla flavors dominate. The underlying fruit flavors suggest mangoes, pears and limes. Drink this oaky wine now.
This pretty wine showcases aromas of yellow flowers and exotic fruit. The bright palate offers honeydew melon, apple and a hint of almond alongside crisp acidity that leaves a quenching finish.
An attractively aromatic wine, full of open fruitiness. It has layers of black currant fruit that go with the fresh acidity, plus a touch of herbs that are followed by firm tannins. Juicy and ready to drink from 2015.
Ripe and creamy in texture, this is a pear and peach flavored wine. A touch of butteriness gives a rounded texture and a hint of vanilla. Drink this fruity wine from 2015.
Rubber, Band-Aid and iodine aromas mix with berry fruit and plum on the nose of this blend. The mouthfeel is choppy and light, while blackened flavors of blackberry and plum finish somewhat bitter.
This attractive fruity wine is just the ticket for summer food. It has weight and plenty of ripe red-berry fruits. It also has a crisper than usual edge that gives it a bright character. There are a touch of pepper and a final lift of acidity. Drink now.
Rkatsiteli is hard to pronounce and harder yet to spell, but it's an invitingly zippy thirst-quencher here. Tart white melon and grapefruit flavors are exhilarating and fresh from nose to finish. The finish is dry and zesty.
From a Provence estate bearing the name of the family that has owned it for 17 generations, this wine is crisp, fruity and bright. It has a light touch of acidity, as well as red currant and spice flavors. The wine, with its lively aftertaste, is in a fine apéritif style.
This wine is a blend of fruit from Quintessence, Red Heaven, Fidelitas Estate and Shaw vineyards. The aromas are wound up tightly at present but with coaxing reveal notes of French oak spices, black cherry and black currant. The flavors show a surprising amount of restraint, with a pleasing cranberry tartness and a lick of tannins.
This wine is 100% varietal. The aromas are locked up at present, with notes of luxurious French oak treatment and cherry. The flavors are dense and concentrated, but the tannins show a fair amount of grip, providing some distraction. There are good things going on but the oak is intense at present.
Foursight has taken a new stylistic direction with Pinot Noir that involves wild yeast fermentation and no fining or filtration. This medium-bodied, garnet-colored wine is appealing for its firm mouthfeel and lean fruit flavors that are neither overripe nor over-extracted. Its tart cherry and rhubarb aromas and great acidity have a palate-cleansing effect.
Hawthorne, honeysuckle and orchard fruit aromas carry over to the tangy palate, along with ripe yellow apple, white peach and nectarine notes. Zesty acidity leaves a clean, crisp finish while a hint of white almond marks the close.
Fresh green pear, lemon and lime notes pervade the nose and palate of this light-footed, zesty wine. It's slender in body and easy-drinking, with a fruity, dry and refreshing finish.
While brawny in alcohol and body, vivacious grapefruit and white-peach flavors add levity to this dry neatly balanced white wine. It's richly textured but finishes elegantly and lean.
Lusciously ripe black and red cherry fruit is abundant; its flavors pervade everything and speak to the ripeness of the 2015 vintage. Yet, the palate is balanced with enough freshness to make this a very enjoyable, juicy wine. Pack it in your picnic basket or chill it for a lovely bit of Austrian sunshine in your glass.
Enticing Granny Smith apple and fragrant white flower scents take center stage in this delightful white. The apple impressioin carries over to the vibrant palate, along with Bartlett pear notes and bright acidity. It finishes crisp and clean.
Completing and complementing the winery's extensive portfolio of Pinot Gris, this is the only one that spends time in barrel. As a note to its uniqueness, the King Estate name is intentionally printed upside down on the label. Though there are no intrusive oak-dominated flavors, the technique definitely softens and smooths the wine, eliminating some of the aromatic details and much of the tang. It's ready to drink: lightly toasty, with pleasant apple and pear flavors.
Winemaker Kevin Riley's fascination with resurrecting the Mission grape vines on his property is starting to pay off. This pink, which includes 18% Zinfandel and 7% Grenache, shows ripe watermelon and strawberry aromas. Red plum and red apple flavors show on the palate, enlivened by mandarin orange accents.
Subtle white fruit—think pale yellow-plum and pear flesh—mingle with fern and yeasty notes on the nose. The palate is zippy, light and easy to like, with fresh, bouncy fruit.
This wild yeast-fermented wine has Spanish broom, honey, toasted nut and ripe yellow stone fruit aromas. The medium-bodied, linear palate mirrors the nose, doling out candied orange zest, dried apricot and mineral notes, with tangy acidity.
This tasty white wine has skin flavors in abundance–citrus peel and apple, with a bit of white peach as well. It's sleek and focused, not afraid to show a touch of bitterness to frame the fruit. It might benefit from decanting an hour or so before consuming it.
Toasted oak and maple syrup aromas meet indulgent brown sugar and blackberry jam flavors in this very ripe-tasting, full-bodied wine. It's easy to gulp and enjoy, not being especially brawny or tannic, and should be great with pulled pork or Mexican molé.
This wine's nose gives little more than a suggestion of zesty ripeness. The palate, on the other hand, is full of friendly, lively fruit. Crisp green and yellow apple and ripe citrus pervade its slender but joyful frame. Zesty and fresh, it only faintly hints of the variety's usual nuttiness.
Zesty lime-pith perfume introduces this squarely balanced off-dry Riesling. Concentrated flavors of pressed apples and pears are dusted in slightly savory tones of saffron and smoked nuts. The finish is invigoratingly crisp but meandering.
Appetizing and fruity peardrop notes dominate the nose. The palate has a refreshing touch of green apple and light, easy fruitiness within a slender and dry frame. Lovely zestiness marks the finish.
This opens with tilled soil, dried black cherry and licorice aromas while the accessible, savory palate delivers blackberry jam, clove and white pepper flavors. Polished tannins offer smooth support. Drink through 2020.
This wine's aroma and first sip come with ripe Amalfi lemon freshness. As it opens, it reveals a pithy, phenolic edge, the palate slender but not lacking in concentration. The finish is dry, textured and full of zesty lemon.
From limestone soil at the foot of Mount Sainte-Victoire, this wine is fruity and deliciously crisp and dry. With its red-currant flavors and intense acidity it is definitely made to be drunk with food. Drink from the end of 2017.
A savory touch of soy colors the nose of this wine. It boasts underlying fleshy, black cherry notes that are edged with peppery spice and enough freshness to feel lively, honest and appetizing. The finish is fresh and juicy.
Russet pear peel and flesh make for an inviting, appetizing nose. The palate is fresh and provides some yeasty, savory texture. There is ample freshness and lasting, yeasty spice. The finish is clean and very refreshing.
Spring blossoms and lime zest scent this bristling light-footed Riesling. It's dryish on the palate and penetrates with crisp-tart peach and apricot flavors. The finish is invigoratingly mineral. Drink now through 2020.
Honeysuckle, ripe pear and exotic fruit aromas take center stage. The bright, juicy palate doles out honeydew melon, white peach and nectarine flavors with lively acidity, finishing on an almond note.
Dark raspberry, barrel spice and smoke aromas are followed by medium-bodied fruit flavors. The tannins bring a slight sense of astringency. Perhaps some time in the bottle will help them settle.
The best effort to date from Peregrine's second label, this is a chunky but velvety-textured wine. Ground spices and earth notes add nuance to the plummy fruit, which manages to finish bright and fresh. Drink now–2022.
The barrel time in neutral French oak has softened and polished the edges of this wine. Flavors of green banana and apple carry some grace notes of marshmallow and coconut. It's an interesting, smooth and tasty effort.
Fresh, light and fruity this is attractive young Chablis. It is soft, dwelling on the fruit rather than any texture. Crisp and with citrus and green apple flavors, it will be ready to drink easily by mid-2016.
Nectarine and white peach aromas are pithy, pointed and briny like sea water. This feels citrusy and pulpy, while zesty citric flavors of grapefruit, scallion and green herbs finish with residual pithy briny notes.
Sharply etched in pineapple and Meyer lemon, this wine retains a brightness of fruit and acidity throughout, never overly impeded by oak. A subtle, earthy herbal streak plays in the background.
Floral blueberry and black-currant aromas are jammy. Following the nose, this Garnacha feels chunky and low in acidity. Jammy flavors of blueberry and cassis end in a pudgy but friendly way. Drink this low-acid offering sooner rather than later.
Floral, grapefruity aromas and sweet honey and peach flavors make this a very effusive and fruity wine. Though rich with flavor it's not cloying and is light bodied.
Immensely toasty aromas overcome the light fruit from the get-go. Thin flavors of raspberry and black-cherry candy carry it a while, but the oaky finish seems way out of proportion to the fruit.
Aromas of charcoal and flavors of barbecue sauce make it pretty clear what to eat when drinking this bold, spicy and assertive wine. Moderate tannins give just enough texture to support this medium-bodied wine.
Tropical fruit aromas of mango and guava prepare the palate for flavors of lemon-lime sorbet with notes of freesia. There is a nice vein of minerality that offers a faint sensation of chalkiness on the gums. Softly lingering tannins recede into a crisp finish.
This is a rich wine showing jammy blackberry flavors against pronounced alcohol. The acidity at the end does provide a lighter, fresher lift.
While fresh pink grapefruit and Meyer lemon notes shine brightly on the nose and palate of this off-dry Riesling, there's a touch of savory allium that distracts. It's a juicy easygoing wine with approachably soft, sunny acidity. Drink now.
At first, this smells almost entirely of wood and stalky berry fruits; with time, it takes on a cedary quality but remains leathery, minty and rooty. On the palate this is grabby while stalky, briny flavors of herbal fruits end rustic minty and challenging.
Initially closed, this eventually reveals subdued aromas of scorched earth, leather, overripe berry, a hint of sage and a whiff of cured meat. The bracing palate offers raisin, licorice and a note of dried black cherry while raspy tannins leave and astringent finish.
A blend of 60% Syrah and 40% Cabernet Sauvignon, this wine has a restrained nose of cranberry and toast. It has flavors of cherry, blueberry and toasted bread with a tart note of cranberry. It is easy drinking but falls flat on the finish.
Succulent apricot and creamy vanilla add to the round, full-bodied expression of this robust white wine, the Sémillon blended with 15% Sauvignon Blanc from a single vineyard. A thickness of caramel and more vanilla rises on the finish.
Roasted berry aromas are stalky at first but come around. This feels round but only marginally structured. Creamy ripe generic flavors of berry and cherry finish solid with some heat.
Despite its naturally tannic character, Malbec makes delicious rosé, like this, that allows the red fruit and fresh acidity free rein. The wine has a slight structure, although it is more about deliciously fresh fruit. Drink now.
This easygoing red offers fruit-driven sensations of wild cherry, plum and accents of black pepper. On the palate, bright acidity supports the juicy fruit flavors. It's direct and clean, and will work nicely for informal occasions.
Straightforward peach, nectarine and apple aromas are fleshy, as is the palate, which puts out leesy creamy flavors of apple and green banana. A leesy, low-acid finish is plump and lacks follow through. Drink immediately.
Untamed plum and cherry aromas are a bit strained. This everyday Garnacha is fresh and fruity in feel, with good but standard plum and cherry flavors. An edgy grating finish with a spot of oak character wraps this up.
Aromas of baked plum, forest floor, roasted coffee bean and toasted oak lead the nose. The dense, one-dimensional palate delivers blackberry jam, licorice, peppermint and espresso alongside grainy tannins. The the heat of alcohol dominates the midpalate and the finish, throwing this off balance.
This is a ripe wine that includes Chardonnay and Viognier in its blend. It has yellow fruits that are cut with plenty of acidity. A cool, crisp element reminds that the vineyards are close to the ocean. The wine is ready to drink.
Citrus and peach pit aromas are mild. This is clean but basic on the palate with citrus, nectarine and lime flavors. A clean refreshing finish is a nice way to wrap things up. This is Sauvignon Blanc and Verdejo.
This blend of Sémillon and Sauvignon Gris is medium dry in character, with fruity acidity and a floral character from the Sauvignon Gris. A crisp, light fruitiness makes it an attractive apéritif wine.
This wine is made from the Bastardo grape which, as its name suggests, is tough to handle and rarely found. Very light in color and with a rustic flavor, the wine is light with hints of red berry fruits. A curiosity. Drink now.
There's a hint of a sweaty, earthy undertone in the nose, and this wine shows a fair amount of stem and earth flavors. Sour cherry fruit adds a lighter layer, with notes of cement and bark. It spent time in 11% new oak.
This soft and smooth wine has just the right amount of smoky tannins to support the ripe, bitter cherry fruits and fresh acidity. It is still all fruit and certainly would benefit from aging, so drink from 2017.
The wine is rich, possibly too rich with its dark tannins and tarry character. While there are plenty of black plum fruits, there is also some bitter licorice that comes from extraction during winemaking. Considering its age, it is likely this character will remain. The wine is ready to drink.
The wine is soft and lightly textured. It has fruit with ripe apricot and white peach flavors that are lifted by the bright citrus aftertaste. The wine is ready to drink.
A mix of 37% Zinfandel, 32% Syrah and 31% Petite Sirah, this is a burly, thick and syrupy concoction from a high-elevation vineyard site known for its power and concentration. Sweet vanilla rides a dense wave of tannin and oak, finishing tight and leathery.
Ripe yellow fruits dominate this full wine. Balanced by apple freshness, it offers rich apricots and creamed pear, backed by acidity. It's simple, fruity and delicious now.
This is yet another unconventional, funky Rioja from this producer. Herbal saucy aromas of briar patch and raisin are a challenge to process. On the palate, this is intensely tannic. Herbal, spicy cherry, plum and licorice flavors finish with juicy acidity. Drink through 2028.
Cedar, bold berry and cassis aromas come with an exotic note of sandalwood. In the mouth, this feels alert, bright and grabby, with a full load of muscular tannins and acidity. Flavors of spiced blackberry, coffee and chocolate are toasty and a touch burnt in character on the finish. Drink through 2023.
Woody notes of cedar and cigar box blend harmoniously with bright red currant and blackberry on the nose. Cigar box tones continue on to the palate, alongside flavors of black cherry, blackberry and Chinese five spice. The grippy tannins are well matched with crisp acidity and lush body, while the finish is long, dry and spicy.
Full bodied and lavishly oaked, this wine boasts gorgeous shadings of brown sugar, clove and cinnamon layered over cassis and red berries. The plush finish lingers, folding in plum and vanilla. Drink now–2023.
Made of 80% Sangiovese, 10% Canaiolo and 10% Cabernet Sauvignon, this polished red opens with black-skinned berry and leather aromas. The smooth, medium-bodied palate evokes dried black cherries, cinnamon and white pepper, while fine-grained tannins provide elegant support. Enjoy through 2021.
Made of equal parts dried Trebbiano and Malvasia grapes, this dessert wine has intense toasted almond, maple syrup and caramel aromas. The dense, structured palate delivers acacia honey, dried fig and toasted hazelnut flavors.
Made with the involvement of Hubert de Bouärd of Château Angélus as consultant, this wine is superrich and packed with dark fruit. Despite its high alcohol for a Bordeaux, it is balanced and fruity with tannins the are comfortably cushioned by the fruit and freshened by acidity. Drink from 2021.
This is the first reserve Pinot Gris from the winery—half fermented in stainless, half in barrel. The wine feels as if it's very lightly oxidized, with dusty, tawny apple flavors that recall a good hard cider. Its power is in the persistent, bone dry finish, that never quits. Drink now through 2018.
A blend of 55% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Merlot, 18% Cabernet Franc and 7% Petit Verdot, this well-structured red offers ripe dark-skinned berry, underbrush and graphite aromas. The concentrated, savory palate delivers black currant, white pepper and soothing licorice flavors and fine tannins. Enjoy through 2023.
Dark spice, plum, toast and balsamic aromas lift out of the glass. The palate is firm and full-bodied, showing juicy black cherry, grilled herb, roasted coffee bean and French oak notes, underscored by bracing tannins that suggest this still needs a few more years to unwind.
This is a barrel selection from vines approaching 20 years of age. It's still quite tight, yet showing deeper riper fruit flavors than the Lylee. A judicious mix of cranberry, raspberry and black cherry, streaked with cola, contributes length, polish and texture to the finish. Drink 2018 through 2025.
Richard and Thekla Sanford of Alma Rosa produce much lighter styles of Pinot Noir than many of their neighbors. In this bottling, that translates to bright pomegranate and cranberry fruit with hints of anise and rose on the nose. The palate offers raspberry fruit and sagebrush spice, with a strong, grippy texture.
A touch of wet stone and wet earth accompanies the scent of ripe pear on the nose. The palate, therefore, surprises with luscious, off-dry peachiness and ample fruit: ripe pears and juicy peaches abound with expressive flavor. Their generosity is met with lemony freshness. This is utterly moreish and seductive with a lemony, just off-dry finish that makes you want to sip again.
A ripe full-bodied wine that has great structure and fine tannins. The bold red fruits are right to the front. It is a wine with great potential, generous tannins and the acidity of the vintage beautifully balanced. This wine will develop well. Drink from 2024.
The wine, with its 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, is solidly structured with plenty of the firmness that is characteristic of young Saint-Estèphe. To go with this structure, the wine is also full of perfumed black fruits that are already delicious. It will be a rich serious wine as it develops over the next several years. Drink from 2022.
Ken Wright produces as many as a dozen or more single-vineyard Pinots in any given vintage. This wine is blended from many of those same sites, whose vines were often planted back in the 1980s. It's light and elegant, yet powerfully flavorful, with strawberry, raspberry and cherry fruit pushing deep into the palate. It's clean and fresh, with crisp defining acidity, perfect balance, refined tannins and a long finish. Best of all, it's widely available.
This Chardonnay from Dan Kessler and Ellen Haak-Kessler is a blend of of clones 95 and 76, featuring tangerine, pear, and chamomile on the nose. The palate is framed by tension and bright acidity, opening up to riper flavors of peach and melon, with a hint of sea salt.
Light in color yet meaty on the palate, this is a youthful, tightly-wound red, firm in tannin and oak. The fruit profile is subtle, allowing spicier characteristics of cardamom and clove to shine.
This 100% Syrah wine opens with ripe black-skinned fruit, roasted coffee, leather and cedar aromas. The full-bodied, concentrated palate offers dried blackberry, espresso, white pepper and star anise flavors, bolstered by ample, polished tannins. Enjoy through 2021.
This wine integrates handsome new oak aromas with concentrated and powerful fruit. It has a big personality, full body, firm tannins, and a defining and spicy oak character that ties it all together.
D'Arenberg's Coppermine Cabernets are often tannic and austere upon release, so be warned should you decide to open one in the next year or two. The aromas and flavors are classic this year, seamlessly marrying cassis and cedar, but finishing dry, astringent and firm. Drink 2020–2030+.
This is a vibrant take on the grape, with fresh-pressed boysenberry and wisteria aromas merging with rosemary, fennel and sarsaparilla on the nose. Food friendly, it shows more boysenberry, thyme, white pepper, and floral freshness on the palate.
There is a hint of flinty reduction that still clings to the nose. Underneath that is shy crisp red-cherry fruit. The palate adds glimpses of lifted conifer aromas to that. There is lightness and a very fine structure, but also depth. This is very elegant and understated but all the more touching for that. The finish is totally refreshing and dry.
This is a high-toned white driven by citrus and pear flavors, with a punch of oaky power and full-bodied richness on the finish.
This fruit-forward, entry level release is nonetheless all estate grown and spent just under a year in French oak. It's a supple flavorful mix of plum and cherry fruit, accented with iron filings, lead pencil and dark chocolate.
This contends for the best $10 Riesling in the country. It's off dry, with 30g/L of residual sugar, but not too sweet for some Asian noodle entrées. The mouthfeel is thick and borders on syrupy, with penetrating flavors of mango, papaya and peaches. It could also be served after dinner with fruit and soft cheeses.
Earthy in anise and blue fruit, this wine is inexplicably crisp and plush at the same time, showing the allure of the variety in its rose petal aromas. Medium bodied and velvety, it follows through in cassis and pomegranate flavors.
Sumptuous peach comes across as almost overripe. There certainly is opulence on the rich almost oily palate. Flavors are very concentrated and have edges of caramel and barley sugar, but these are balanced by freshness and a pithy welcomed bitterness. This finishes medium sweet with lingering flavors of both zest and peach.
Spicy forest notes speak loudest in this wine, which has a quiet texture of tightly woven tannin and supportive oak. Complex and savory, its fruit is subdued, marked by wild strawberry and minty herb.
Earthiness mingles with very ripe notions of stone fruit and mirabelle plum compote. There are hints of caramel and a pervading sense of lemon freshness that balances the off-dry palate. The fruit flavors are rich, full-on and linger on the finish.
Almost white in color, this wine is fruity and crisp with lemon and lime flavors. A light hint of a tannic structure also suggests minerality. The aftertaste is bright and packed with acidity.
As pale-colored as possible, this wine still manages a light tannic edge as well as red-fruit flavors. Crisp, and clean, it offers lively acidity providing a bright aftertaste. Drink now.
Aromas of banana, mango, and pineapple open to flavors of tropical fruit salad, mango and banana and a soft finish.
This opens with aromas suggesting pressed yellow flower, orchard fruit and an unusual whiff that recalls brimstone. The brisk palate offers yellow apple, citrus and a bitter medicinal note.
This is a good-time wine that's superrich and fruity. It's easy to drink and enjoy, uncomplicated and jammy in flavor and soft in texture.
A pleasant mix of dark berries and fruit lead the bouquet of this friendly wine, with solid notes of black cherry, blackberry and boysenberry throughout. A hint of spice adds interest to the finish, with medium-light tannins and ample acidity resulting in good overall balance.
The wine is round and full in the mouth. The acidity gives a fresh character to the ripe caramel flavors that shine through the light texture. It is a wine that needs food, with its lively acidity giving a dry, mineral aftertaste.
This full-bodied and earthy-tasting wine has berries and cherries in the aroma and beefy, savory flavors that fill out the rather tannic texture nicely.
This is a delicate wine, true to variety with musky scents and flavors of beetroot, cherry and cola. The only off-note is a hint of plastic in the aftertaste.
This is a juicy and formidably tannic version of the variety, from a famed vineyard known also for Zinfandel. Dry oak and intrusively harsh texture need mellowing before the more gentle notions of dried herb and black cherry can shine.
Simple, but up-front strawberry fruit reigns on nose and palate of this very light-bodied red. The palate is soft, easy, dry and fresh and would take very well to chilling on a warm day.
Red plum and strawberry compote rise faintly from the glass. The palate is fruity but dilute, easy and clean. Drink soon and possibly chilled a little to accentuate the freshness.
Aromas of yellow flower, citrus and dried herb float out of the glass. The palate is a bit on the lean side, offering lime, grilled sage and bitter almond alongside zesty acidity.
Aromas of citrus, dried herb and yellow flower lead. On the straightforward palate, fresh acidity underscores yellow apple and lemon zest while a bitter almond note closes.
A dull nose leads to a slightly herbal, softly citrus-fresh palate. This wine is dry and fresh with a clean finish.
Despite the excellent vintage, this seems more tannic than ripe. The fruit is simple and leafy, with tea flavors and a chalky finish.
You could do a lot worse at the U.S. Open than to sip a glass of this. Keeping it well-chilled will help rein in the broad, weighty notes of peach and melon and allow hints of peppery spice to emerge on the finish. Drink now.
Orange rind, leather and black cherry aromas are a touch funky. This dark-colored Pinot is big in body and bulky. Black plum, tea and berry flavors are drawing on the finish.
Owner Daniel Barcelo produces a wine that is soft, fruity and with a forward crispness and red fruit flavor that is generous and fresh. It is a bright, lively and refreshing wine.
The wine's very reserved nose requires patience to release the asphalt and blackberry jam aromas. Berry flavors show on the palate as does some asphalt and pepper. Everything feels balanced but it could use some more power and punch.
With a predominance of Merlot, this soft, caramel-flavored wine is veering towards off dry. It has an attractive freshness as well as a crisp touch that makes it very drinkable now.
This is a skin-contact wine, fermented on skins for a week, that displays the technique in its dark golden color. From there, it's ripe in a sweetness of baked pear, honey and dried apricot, while lean on the palate despite the fleshy nature of the fruit.
This is a 100% varietal wine, aged for 32 months, with one-quarter of the barrels being new oak. Grippy in red currant and cranberry, it has a thickness of tannin and slightly bittersweet, tobacco-like finish.
A distinctly aromatic nose tells of honeysuckle while the dry, light palate is sherbety and less defined. Drink this easygoing wine soon, while aromas are fresh.
A lovely, citrus-scented lightness governs nose and palate. The lemony streak counters the richer palate.
This medium-bodied wine is very fruity in aroma, and exudes ripe pear and fig flavors. Add in creamy vanilla accents and a very soft texture and the effect is almost sweet.
Dusty earth, seashell notes and tomato aromas don't fully announce how snappy, tart and racy this coastal PN is. Almost sour red-plum and pie-cherry flavors finish angular, sharp and zesty to an extreme.
This opens with heady aromas of yellow stone fruit, white flower and citrus. The palate is a bit on the lean side, offering lime and a mineral note alongside bright acidity.
Earthy notes mix in with fresh Mirabelle plum notes and juicy apples. The palate is fresh, bouncy and light. Drink soon.
A ripe, raspberry flavored wine that is crisp while also very fruity. It has attractive acidity and a refreshing, juicy aftertaste that is irresistible. Drink now.
This easy-drinking blend of Sangiovese and Merlot offers red cherry, strawberry and a hint of anise. Simple and rather diluted, it's made to be drunk young, with brisk acidity and fleeting tannins.
All black fruits, the wine is dominated by black currants and stalky tannins. It is fresh with lively acidity and berry flavors and a generous texture. Drink from 2016.
Fairly light aromas of red cherry juice, licorice and dried violets show on the nose, following by a rather light density on the palate as well. Hints of minty cherry and charred wood also arise, as do grippy tannins that vanish quickly.
Jammy raspberry and strawberry aromas are a touch murky. This feels wide and broken down, with jagged tannins. Earthy, undefined, unrefined flavors of mixed berry fruits finish raw and tannic.
Medicinal blackberry and beet aromas introduce a jammy, full-sized palate that's a bit out of shape but not a complete mess. Heavy black cherry and cassis flavors finish with a hint of licorice, yet lack a bit of complexity and structure.
Aromas of scrambled eggs are cidery and flat. This feels soft and unfocused, with low acidity and a mild bead. Green flavors of lettuce and herbs are more salad-like than fruity, while the finish is soft and lacking in edge.
This is an extroverted version of a varietal that can be quite subtle. Aromas suggest grapefruit and pears, while flavors are assertive and citruslike, with an earthy accent. The feel in the mouth is reasonably crisp.
A muscular, oaky nose shows cool, grapy, berry aromas that carry an animal streak. This is drawing, tannic and rubbery on the palate, with meaty, hard-spice flavors of blackberry that turn mildly bitter and hot on the finish.
Entirely stainless-steel fermented, this wine offers lemon and lime in abundance, along with kiwi and sour apple. A tad disjointed, it tastes big and fuller bodied even without the oak.
Briny, minerally aromas of vitamin dust and lees feed into a yeasty, round, melony palate. Flavors of yellow apple, mango and mustard finish yeasty, soft and briny.
Aromas of white flowers and mild tropical fruits turn more gritty with time. In the mouth, this Viura is dilute but not empty. Flavors of Bartlett pear, lime and nectarine finish tangy and lean.
Stiff and tannic, this has some black cherry fruit peeking through but it's overtaken by the earthy, bitter tannins. The wine finishes thin and short.
This is slightly sweet, moderately fruity and smooth in texture. Light aromas of peaches and flowers lead to flavors like sugared honeydew melon. It would match with cheese or spicy Asian food.
Briny, sea foam aromas sit on top of papaya and corn on this oaky, resiny Chardonnay. Woody flavors are up front and immediate, with secondary flavors of clove and peach that end with sawdust.
This is pure Sauvignon Blanc, fresh, crisp and lightly herbaceous. It has attractive lemon flavors, a touch of saltiness and a bright, fruity texture. It is ready to drink.
This is dominated by reduced aromas that seem earthy and vegetal, and similar earthy, smoky flavors. The wine has an overall impression of being lean, medium bodied, moderately tannic and crisp.
An earthy, edgy character derives from slightly funky, smoky aromas and flavors, and a rather sharp texture. Savory and earthy flavors dominate the subtle fruit, and a core of dry tannins emphasizes the lean profile.
This smells like plums and blueberries, tastes smooth and rather rich, showing light spicy, oak accents over the plummy flavors. It's medium bodied, rather light on tannins and acidity, so it has a soft texture overall.
Light, earthy and thin, this doesn't bring much in the way of either fruit or pleasure. Tannins are substantial, which may be a plus if you want to pair it with a burger.
Dense, heavy aromas of roasted berry fruits and hickory are challenging. This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Petit Verdot shows rubbery tannins and flavors of bacon, clove and hickory that are clearly oak-based. A salty, shearing finish ends with a recurrence of a clove flavor.
There is an attractive touch of smokiness to this otherwise fruity wine. It is fresh with acidity and stalky tannins that march alongside the black currant fruits. This is a blend of 50% Merlot, 30% Cabernet Franc and 20% Tannat aged in oak and wooden vats. It is ready to drink.
This is a simple, fruity wine that has ripe black fruits and soft tannins. Made for early drinking, it is aromatic, juicy with a spicy aftertaste.
This blend of Grenache, Syrah, Carignan and Clairette is marked by hints of onion or wild garlic on the nose, and followed by a subdued palate that only hints at wet stone and subdued fruit.
Made with 100% Sangiovese, this opens with aromas of new wood, roasted coffee bean and menthol. The tired palate offers oak-driven spice and coconut but the fruit has completely dried up, leaving only evident alcohol and bitterly astringent tannins.
Shy scents of iron and wild berries barely reach the nose on this wine from San Benito County. The palate shows mostly dried violets and some tannic grip
Dry, rubbery aromas are low on fruit. This is pulpy and citric in feel, with flavors of apple cider, brown sugar and caramel. Sweetness carries onto the finish, which tastes mostly of molasses offset by citrus.
A blend of Touriga Nacional and Syrah, this is a delicate, bright and intensely fruity wine. It is tangy and textured, with fruit zest and crisp acidity. It is ready to drink.
Minty and light, the fruit here does not seem to have obtained optimal ripeness, even for rosé. Scents and flavors suggest pine needle and wintergreen rather than any hint of berry or melon.
There's a lot of smoke on the nose of this savory-scented wine, with shiitake mushrooms, dried strawberry and earthy rhubarb as well. The palate is tart with plum skins and peppered with dark spices, then it flattens into a line of sharp acidity.
Surprisingly, given that this is the reserve-level red wine in the lineup, it seemed to further accent the herbal nature of the grapes, veering into vegetal. Chewy, sour and rather dull, it's best consumed in the near term.
This is lightly herbal and beautifully complex. The fruit is a sweetly ripe mix of boysenberry and blueberry, notched with highlights of pepper and leaf. Everything is supported with perfectly proportioned acids and fine-tuned tannins.
This is a blend from ten different parcels of the Grèves vineyard. It's beautifully smooth, hiding its structure behind generous red fruits as well as a fresh, crisp texture. It's complex, warm, very perfumed and elegant. Drink from 2017.
In this rich, dense wine, firm tannins have already been smoothed by 50% new wood. It is solid, dark and tannic, a powerful wine that is ripe now and will reveal great fruitiness as it ages. From vines close to Volnay, it has hints of the voluptuousness of that village. Drink from 2017.
Reuling is humming its way toward continued greatness in working with its own coveted fruit, crafting a coming-together of earthy fruit and lush texture. This vintage is dark ruby in color, classic in complex forest floor and wild strawberry layered over flowery perfume and a streak of spice. The imprint of oak and girth is still evolving, and the structure is there to cellar from 2017–2021.
Light in ruby-red, see-through red color, it's spicy and alive, with a silky cherry pit aroma and undercurrent of herbal earthiness. Balanced and soft, it can accompany a slow-roasted pork tenderloin adorned in morel mushrooms or a classic BLT. Of course, it's also stellar on its own.
Jumping out of the glass with intoxicating aromas of cracked cherry cordials, this wine comes from the small production of Robin Bogue, whose father, Bill Bogue, is a well-known vineyard consultant. Flavors start with grilled meatiness, slowly slip to licorice on the midpalate and finish between vanilla and leather. Altogether a richly nuanced and deeply luscious wine.
A heady mix of herbs, cedar and milk chocolate, it's generous in black cherry and spicy pepper, a worthwhile textural challenge to the tongue and the mind, complex and layered. With smoky, heavy tannins, it'll enjoy some time to think in the cellar, the finish still rich and thick.
This ripe, modern red shows all the positives of Toro and the 2009 vintage. Lusty, exuberant aromas of black fruits, vanilla and pipe tobacco are highly appealing, while the palate is muscular and tannic yet balanced. Blackberry, cassis, chocolate and lemon flavors finish firm and bold. Drink through 2020.
A terrific effort, the 2010 Terre Ferme is a full-bodied, velvety-textured wine with a long, multidimensional finish. It's pungent and savory upfront in its aromas of clove and allspice, but raspberry undertones add another layer of interest and those grace notes are all underscored by the powerful bass duo of black olive and espresso. Drink now–2025.
It's a shame quantities of this wine are so minuscule (20 cases imported), because it shows the enormous potential of the appellation and producer. Intense aromas of smoke, espresso and black olive lead to a palate that's full bodied and creamy in texture. There's some oak influence, but the notes of vanilla, cinnamon and clove are just an accent to the harmonious whole. Drink now–2020.
Taurasi Radici is a compelling wine that opens with a multifaceted fragrance of freshly tilled earth, iris, leather, tar and mature black berries. The gripping palate delivers ripe black cherry and plum layered with white pepper, clove and mocha, alongside fresh acidity and polished tannins. It's already accessible but hold for even more complexity. Best 2018–2028.
There's a rustier rhubarb hint to this wine, made in a hillside winery between Silicon Valley and Santa Cruz. Light clove and cafe au lait round out the nose. A sip reveals warm red fruit up front, a soft and silky mouthfeel and flavors of a cinnamon cookie laced with Chinese five-spice mix.
The single-vineyard experts at Testarossa hit a homerun with this wine from a famed property. Aromas of 7-Up, recent rains and minerality kick off a refreshing experience, which is powered by a strong flavor combination of very ripe fruit (à la traditional California Chardonnay), barrel-related vanilla and brisk, lingering acidity (à la Old World).
Firm and structured, this dense and dark wine offers ripe black fruits and a concentrated texture. It also shows good acidity and the fruitiness of 2011, giving a wine that is both rich and fresh. Age and drink from 2017.
With three acres out of 36 in this Grand Cru, Faiveley is one of the larger proprietors. The wine is firm and structured with solid tannins, while black fruits give acidity and freshness to this massive wine. Drink from 2020.
Opaquely purple in color, this Syrah-Mourvèdre blend (with 1% Viognier that co-fermented with the Syrah) boasts a brooding black cherry, pipe tobacco and tarragon nose. Then it delivers a much more nuanced palate, with very ripe blackberry, oaky vanilla and a tartness on the backend. It's well integrated, with some tannins to make it last. Drink now with a porterhouse steak, or hold until 2020 and track the sure-to-be-exciting evolution.
Boasting a distinct aroma of both roasted and candied walnuts, this Viognier is probably best suited for those who love California Chardonnay. The palate is luxuriously soft, delivering peach and toasted oak on the midpalate and vanilla on the finish, but the acidity is perfectly incorporated throughout.
Perfume partners with great acidity in this wine. The two work in harmony, resulting in a wine that has a soft texture, rich, jammy berry fruits and a backbone of tannins that will allow for aging. Drink from 2017.
A wine with great sweet fruits along with smoky, firm tannins. It is certainly structured, and the black jelly fruits are already delicious. Weight partners with acidity, creating a combination of freshness and richness at the end. Drink from 2018.
Opaque in its deep purple color, this microchip-toting bottle fills the nose with the wet clay and menthol aromas. On the palate, graphite and black volcanic rock come with a touch of caramelized fruit and dark spices, such as black pepper, that take hold. Still rich with tannins, this will continue to emerge until 2024 if not longer.
In 2012, Balletto had its Pinots undergo natural fermentations, with beguiling results. This vintage of Burnside Road, always a standout bottling, delivers stemmy, herbal, toasty aromas around a layering of warm strawberry fruit and gorgeous earthiness. Soft, silky and seductive, it lingers on the tongue, imprinting on the pleasure centers of the brain.
Start packing your cellar with 2010 Ribera gems like this wine, which is offering graphite and minerally plum and berry aromas in front of a full-bodied, hard-driving palate. Ripe, extracted blackberry and lightly herbal flavors finish with tons of residual weight and tannins. This is loud, burly and delicious; drink from 2016–2030.
Ripe and rich, this full-bodied wine retains minerality as well as attractive acidity. Crisp lemon flavor is rounded out with peach and apple skin fruits. The wood, already integrated, gives richness and smoothness. Drink from 2016.
Considerable wood flavors mask the ripe fruits at this stage. A rich, perfumed wine, it will bring huge, ripe flavors of pineapple and peach, as well as a powerful toasty character. Give it until 2018.
Ripe and full-bodied, this immense wine has rich layers of tropical fruits. The wine, like so often in Corton-Charlemagne, is a powerful, huge expression of Chardonnay. It does have balance from acidity. Drink from 2018.
This is a soft wine on the surface, but under that generosity lies a firm core that gives the promise of aging. This powerful wine comes from stony soil which explains the tannic structure while the richness comes from ripe berry fruits. Drink from 2017.
It's another inky Rhône monster with aging potential from Epoch and their historic Paderewski Vineyard. This Syrah-led blend throws off inviting aromas of black cherry pie, violet, fennel and balsamic vinegar reduction. Once sipped, layers of flavor emerge steadily, with blackberry fruit roll-up, wet pipe tobacco, candied nuts, lingering herbs and a slight vanilla finish. Serve with osso buco or otherwise roasted pork.
Paul Hobbs coaxes beautifully classic Cab aromas and textures from this wine, which comes from the tricky 2011 vintage. Expect black currant, olive, cassis and peppercorn to intermingle on the palate amidst soft elegance, the perfect balance between fruity and herbal. On the finish a dusting of mocha turns up the dial on deliciousness.
Elegant on the nose, it offers aromas settling between violet, white pepper and chai tea. The 5% Petite Sirah adds a nice touch of viscosity to the palate. The flavors range from cinnamon to licorice with nice bitterness and acidity, making the fruits of plum and prune almost an afterthought.
This powerful wine features wood and the ripest fruit. It also has the solid structure of a Nuits Saint-Georges, creating a wine that is dark and impressively concentrated. It offers richness while preserving the fresh fruitiness of the vintage. Drink from 2017.
From chalk soil, this wine is textured with tight tannins lying over the red cherry and berry fruits. Not rich, it's more a gentle excursion into Pinot Noir giving freshness as well as that light structure. It offers perfumed acidity at the end.
This wine is soft, simple, fruity and ready to drink. It has apple and apricot tones and light acidity to keep it fresh, with a bright and refreshing aftertaste.
This Merlot-centric wine brings aromas of herbs, soy and dried raisins, seeminlyg a bit past it prime. The flavors are lightly and the tannins seem dried out. Drink now.
This wine is 100% Cabernet Franc coming from Dineen (75%) and Ciel du Cheval vineyards. Barnyard, cherry, pencil box and spice aromas are followed by lightly styled game, dried cherry and medicine cabinet flavors.
Rich, thick, smoky and soft, this wine conjures all the adjectives that add up to brawny and big. This tastes akin to a Port with chocolate melted in.
Quite distinct from its Single Wheel companion bottlings, there's a rustic, slightly savory tone to pressed apple and pear flavors in this off-dry Riesling. It's light bodied and spry with a brisk, lemony finish.
This jazzed-up wine has a slightly smoky, sawdust-like aroma and ripe, spicy oak flavors that taste almost sweet.
This wine is a unique blend of Syrah (55%), Petit Verdot (a whopping 27%) and Malbec. Aromas of firepit, woodspice, dried herbs, lemon and barnyard are followed by surprisingly elegant fruit flavors, with Petit Verdot's often burly tannins nowhere to be found.
The flint soil of the vineyard shows in the steely, mineral character of this wine. It is all about structure at this stage, subduing the citrus fruits that are developing. It will fill out over the next few months, so drink from late 2016.
Restrained notes of pressed blueberry, condensed rose petals, rose hips and a touch of asphalt show on this delicate though rustic take on the grape. The palate shows a hint of tar but is driven by bright red fruit, proving light and easy to drink.
This opens with funky aromas of barnyard, scorched earth and a whiff of decaying flower. The short, bitter palate is already evolved, offering raisin, game and a hint of cured meat alongside worn, fleeting tannins.
Common cherry and berry aromas lead to a fruit-punch palate with some stickiness. This tastes ripe, with nothing distinguished beyond basic berry flavors. Sweet plum and berry notes steer the finish.
Aromas of cherry Kool-Aid and fruit punch offer a sprinkle of spice in the background. This is simple in feel, with citrusy acidity. The red-fruit flavors are easy going and the finish is mild.
From the Cognac region, this ripe, totally fruity wine has no suggestion of wood aging. Attractive apple and light citrus flavors are ripe and right up front. Acidity adds freshness to the end. Drink now.
This creative blend of 74% Viognier, 19% Chardonnay, 4% Grenache Blanc and 3% Albariño delivers a juicy nose of squeezed orange and peach with tangerine-rind edge and yellow-cake warmth. There's a flash of acidity at first sip, then the flavors dive toward green apples, guava and banana, altogether both ripe and sour.
Spunky, edgy, slightly cheesy cherry and plum aromas come in front of a palate with crisp acidity and firm tannins. Tart plum and pie cherry flavors finish with scraping acidity and a touch of sourness.
Blended with 12% Petite Sirah, this is a hearty, ripe and stewy wine, baked in plum and blackberry. A puckering girth of tannin unwraps itself in the glass as it goes. Cinnamon and black pepper play on the finish, along with a hint of dried herb.
This wine tastes rather light and lean. The aromas are like cherry and apple candy, and the flavors resemble not-quite-ripe red cherries and raspberries. It is dry and medium bodied.
Gravel and red fruit show on the nose of this widely available wine. The body is thinner than some contemporaries, but offers brown spice and dark-red plum fruit. The tannins are quite sticky.
The nose isn't very expressive but eventually reveals aromas of wet, weedy underbrush, eucalyptus and a whiff of spice. The palate is extremely evolved, showing dried fruit, evidence of alcohol and a hint of anise. This has seen better days.
Created in 1819, this vineyard surrounds a Victorian château overlooking the Loire. This wine is fruity, fresh and soft. It has attractive acidity, a light texture and perfumed acidity set in the context of apple and lime fruits. Drink now.
Very light and shy on the nose, this wine with patience shows pomegranate punch and rain-slicked slate. The palate offers tart cranberry, a touch of Earl Grey tea and pencil-lead flavors.
From the coolish appellation of Coombsville, this wine offers industrial-strength tannin around herbal cedar, tar and currant, the finish strongly ripe and full bodied.
This wine offers gentle apple and pear flavors. It is lightly textured, keeping fresh acidity and a herbal touch. Bright with clean fruitiness, it's ready to drink now.
Aromas of clay, lime zest and faint white flowers show on the very reserved and restrained nose. The palate is also shy, with light pear juice, slightly sour lemon curd and a slight gravel component.
Light, fresh aromas of tomato and plum are gritty. This feels round for the most part, with rubbery tannins. Medicinal, slightly minty plum and berry flavors end with acceptable rawness and a latex note.
Light and bright, this slightly textured wine is full of crisp green and citrus fruits. A great tang of acidity and freshness flows through this attractive wine. Drink now.
A balanced, ripe wine, this offers a good contrast between the dusty tannins and bright red-berry fruits. It's ready to drink with its fruitiness, although it will develop a richer, fuller character as it ages over the next year. Drink from 2017.
This is soft, rounded and light. Baked apples and a creamy texture come with a refreshing burst of acidity tempered by a lightly toasty character. The wine is ready to drink.
This blend of 43% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Syrah and 20% Petit Verdot offers purple and black fruit on the nose, with a touch of black pepper. The flavors are also quite dark, with dried mint, thyme, cigar leaf and blackberry fruit.
It's rare to find this variety in Pinot-heavy Russian River Valley, but this producer treats it with respect, crafting a minuscule amount of worthy flavor, the 100% Petite Sirah awash in velvety tannins that tease in coconut and vanilla. Soft oak is supported by smoky leather, chocolate and blackberry, a dustiness completing the picture.
From a block planted in 1979, this clonal selection has sharp edges, bright cranberry fruit, black pepper and chocolate highlights. The old vines seem to add length and texture, with finishing touches of mineral and breakfast tea.
Juicy in lipsticky cherry, this Cab has big oak at the center, along with a substantial mouthfeel on the palate that's unexpectedly buoyed and bright with acidity. Big shoulders filled of tar and blackberry promise enjoyment down the road, through 2026.
The exposure of the Brand vineyard is due south, giving its wine richness and a full-bodied character. This Pinot Gris is moving towards sweet as well as rich, with yellow fruits and a smooth texture. It's now mature, a ripe, broad wine that's ready to drink.
This richly spicy, full wine has great depth of flavor. It is powerful, concentrated and shows a straight line of purity between the fruit and the final wine. Like many wines from Deiss, this off-dry wine needs to age. Drink from 2016.
Made mostly with Nero d'Avola and Syrah, this structured but elegant wine offers aromas of dried black fruit, underbrush, crushed blue flower and a suggestion of baking spice. The firm, smooth palate delivers black cherry, blackberry, ground pepper, cinnamon, licorice and tobacco alongside velvety tannins.
Farmed biodynamically, this wine has a pure fruit character, intense and mineral. It's on the sweet side, although the acidity allows good freshness into the mix. It needs to age, so drink from 2017.
Made with native yeast (no inoculation), this is a ripe and buttery wine loaded with peach and Asian pear fruit flavors. Just 28% of the barrels were new, bringing toasty goodness throughout. A flavor of buttered, roasted nuts finishes it nicely.
Now at its peak, this rich, rounded wine is full of spice and tropical fruits, and is full in the mouth. The explosion of ripe fruits is only lightly restrained by some final acidity. This joyous wine is ready to drink.
Oak powers the nose on this entry-level bottling from the Ballard Canyon-based winery, with peach custard, cinnamon and other brown spices. It's wide and ripe on the palate at first, with cooked Meyer lemons, nectarine and pineapple, but also boasts a line of brisker acidity trending toward lime.
A meaty Cab with small percentages of Merlot, Cabernet Franc and Petit Sirah, this was given two years in mostly French oak. Pencil shavings and tar dominate on the nose, opening the way for a juiciness on the palate expressing dried herb and cassis. Integrated, the finish is savory and oaky. Enjoy through 2021.
This bottling, which is already good but shows potential to be great, eschews overly obvious fruit aromas to instead deliver notes of peppercorns, pencil shavings and green bell pepper. The palate is powered by a lively bitterness of underripe raspberries, raw coffee beans and more green peppers, yet will probably age better than most of its vintage counterparts. Drink 2018–2024.
Aromas suggest blueberry, coffee and orange rind. The nice marriage of cooked and fresh fruit flavors with cool herbal notes includes blueberry, black cherry, anise, eucalyptus, coffee, pencil lead and violet. Tannins come on strong but back off appropriately, and the pleasing finish includes lasting touches of leather and tart cherry.
Stoller's reserve reflects the specific vintage conditions while retaining a stylistic throughline. In 2012, it's dark and potent, with streaks of saline, fresh herb, black olive and tart cherry. A big wine, it opens nicely with breathing time, turning into a lush, generous mouthful, with notes of cola and spice.
This fragrant red opens with blue flower, wild strawberry, red berry and a note of baking spice. The vibrant, linear palate delivers crushed cherry, red raspberry, white pepper, flinty mineral and thyme alongside polished tannins and bright acidity.
A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Nero d'Avola, this opens with aromas of vanilla, spiced plum, cedar and bell pepper. The full-bodied palate doles out ripe blackberry, black cherry, espresso, toasted oak, clove and licorice alongside assertive tannins.
Early aromas of raisin and prune give way to richer, more inky scents of blackberry and cassis. But all the while there's an herbal note of oregano to the nose. This has a full, clampy feel and lightly herbal, oaky flavors of graphite, resiny oak, blackberry and cassis. Oak and resin characterize the finish. Drink through 2018.
Half Wadenswil and half Pommard, from a 1989 planting, this single-vineyard selection is taut and juicy, a mix of citrus and raspberry, remaining sharply focused even after 48 hours of breathing time. The bright fruit, proportion and precision are impressive, though it needs a bit more bottle age to open up completely.
Give this wine your full attention and it continues to give back. Tart young strawberry and black cherry fruit flavors are set in a frame of light toast and juicy acid. With perfect balance, good length and emerging details, more complexity should develop as this wine ages. Suggestion: cellar until 2018–2020.
Just to the west of the Grand Cru of Moenchberg, this small vineyard has produced a rich, ripe and full-bodied wine. It's surprisingly ready to drink, balanced between spice, tropical fruits and just enough acidity. Drink now, although it will also age at least until 2020.
This rough and rowdy combo of 38% Syrah, 35% Grenache, 19% Mourvèdre and 8% Petite Sirah is rough around the edges in ramshackle savory dirt flavor yet nicely smoothed over in juicy blue and black fruit, meaty tannin and an expertly concocted peppery finish.
Tart with melon, peach and lemon fruits, this was crafted in a mix of stainless and new French oak. Low alcohol notwithstanding, it drinks dry despite some residual sugar.
This 100% estate-grown field blend of Zinfandel and Petite Sirah made in microscopic quantities impresses in every way. Smoky dust hits the nose first, before ushering in soft layers of juicy, lush blackberry, savory pepper and herb. Balanced and delicious, it's a worthwhile find from Rutherford, land of Cab.
Blue Fish Riesling consistently stuns in a blind-tasting lineup. It's dry in style yet intensely sunny and ripe, brimming with yellow-cherry and cashew-nut richness. Supple and silky on the palate, it's a spectacular value that's likely to surprise.
Sweet cherry-vanilla rolls off the palate in this concentrated, lush and velvety Pinot Noir that offers all the aspects of classic Russian River Valley fruit. The texture is seamlessly integrated around firm, supple tannins and bright, earthy red fruit.
This dry, well-aged tawny definitely tastes more than its 10 years indication. It has strong wood and toast characters and a smoky flavor cut with old-gold acidity. It's complex, dried fruits and nuts coming through at the end.
Almost 2% higher in alcohol than the 2011, this young and ageworthy effort spent time in 50% new French oak. It retains a moderate herbal edge, a hint of hemp, and sleek cranberry and cherry fruit. The acidity is stiff and the overall sense is that the wine will continue to improve through 2020 or more.
This wasn't an easy vintage in Central Otago, which makes this 2009 all the more remarkable. Scents of pine needles, damp earth, rosemary, brown sugar and cherries are complex and beguiling, while on the palate the wine is lightweight and silky, with a delicate core of wiry acidity that holds everything together. Drink now–2020.
Ideal Albariño aromas of buttercup, orange blossom, mild citrus, peach and seashell set up a mature but fresh palate, with layered complexity and minerality to spare. Flavorwise, this is a touch waxy, with an emphasis on pear, peach and melon. A dry, clean, slightly dusty finish sends this off in fine fashion.
This vineyard-designated Viognier is light and lithe in focused apricot and wet stone minerality. A wisp of a wine, it's light in texture and weight yet lingers memorably on the palate, with flavors of stone fruit and soft spice that carry through to the long finish.
A blend of 55% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Merlot, 18% Cabernet Franc and 7% Petit Verdot, this well-structured red offers ripe dark-skinned berry, underbrush and graphite aromas. The concentrated, savory palate delivers black currant, white pepper and soothing licorice flavors and fine tannins. Enjoy through 2023.
Dark spice, plum, toast and balsamic aromas lift out of the glass. The palate is firm and full-bodied, showing juicy black cherry, grilled herb, roasted coffee bean and French oak notes, underscored by bracing tannins that suggest this still needs a few more years to unwind.
This is a barrel selection from vines approaching 20 years of age. It's still quite tight, yet showing deeper riper fruit flavors than the Lylee. A judicious mix of cranberry, raspberry and black cherry, streaked with cola, contributes length, polish and texture to the finish. Drink 2018 through 2025.
Richard and Thekla Sanford of Alma Rosa produce much lighter styles of Pinot Noir than many of their neighbors. In this bottling, that translates to bright pomegranate and cranberry fruit with hints of anise and rose on the nose. The palate offers raspberry fruit and sagebrush spice, with a strong, grippy texture.
A touch of wet stone and wet earth accompanies the scent of ripe pear on the nose. The palate, therefore, surprises with luscious, off-dry peachiness and ample fruit: ripe pears and juicy peaches abound with expressive flavor. Their generosity is met with lemony freshness. This is utterly moreish and seductive with a lemony, just off-dry finish that makes you want to sip again.
Classic Margaret River Cabernet, showing great balance between cedary oakiness and effusive fruitiness. Cola and plum notes give this a darker flavor spectrum than some vintages, yet the flavors remain crisp and vibrant, ending with soft tannins. Drink now–2025.
This top-shelf red blend from television producers Nigel Lythgoe and Ken Warwick shows cooked blackberry, purple flower, soy and anise aromas on the nose. Oregano and marjoram lead the palate, which is moderately dense, with tangy blackberry and boysenberry flavors.
There is a rich black plum darkness to the nose of this bottling, which transitions to muddy loam and wet clay, lifted by aromatic sagebrush. The palate shows dried black cherry, star anise and more soil-driven minerality.
Chocolate-covered raspberry forms the luscious core of this fairly priced wine that's medium-bodied, moderately naked in its oak use and soft in its approachability. Rich, dense and luxurious, it will pair well with any grilled meats.
This is a dark saturated fully oaked Rioja with savory briary berry aromas and notes of coffee grounds, fennel and hard spices. A full chunky palate is displaying young rubbery tannins. Flavors of baked plum, grilled meat, raw oak and lemon peel finish with toasty oak that veers towards maple. Drink through 2030.
This 100% Syrah wine opens with ripe black-skinned fruit, roasted coffee, leather and cedar aromas. The full-bodied, concentrated palate offers dried blackberry, espresso, white pepper and star anise flavors, bolstered by ample, polished tannins. Enjoy through 2021.
This fruit-forward, entry level release is nonetheless all estate grown and spent just under a year in French oak. It's a supple flavorful mix of plum and cherry fruit, accented with iron filings, lead pencil and dark chocolate.
Despite coming from a warm, inland region, this shows admirable freshness. Cassis, vanilla, some red-fruit tones and baking spices all come together harmoniously on the medium-bodied palate. It's restrained yet intense, with a long, silky finish. Drink now–2025.
Dark chocolate and cedar merge easily on the nose of this medium- to full-bodied wine. Those dark, oaky elements are balanced by tart berries on the palate, enhanced by barrel char and oodles of soft tannins on the long finish. Drink now–2025.
This is a terrific value in balanced, ready-to-drink Australian Cabernet. It brings several Bordeaux-ish qualities to the table—medium body, silky tannins and aromas reminiscent of cigar box and Ribena—then adds varietally true flavors and a long finish. Drink now–2025.
This opens with black plum, underbrush and new leather aromas. The palate is concentrated, its mint- and tobacco-laced black cherry core underpinned by fine-grained tannins. Drink now–2023.
Briary plum and leather aromas are slightly toasty. This feels just chewy and dense enough to rise above lean and dainty. Spicy peppery berry flavors come with a dusting of chocolaty oak, while the finish hums along with a firm but manageable tannic grip. Drink through 2021.
Smoky cranberry and pomegranate feature prominently in this medium-bodied, delicately crafted wine. It shows a hint of burnt orange spiked with clove.
This wine is all bramble and brawn. High-octane in power and ripeness, it has a juicy core of mocha-laced blackberry fruit. Pencil shavings and gravel notes add a tease of minerality amongst all that richness.
Meaty and brooding, this is a taut, focused and dusty wine made from organically and biodynamically grown grapes. Tart cranberry notes give it a sharpness that accentuates the deeper, richer layers of black fruit.
A bright purple tint announces a jumpy youthful-smelling wine with plum, black currant and oak aromas. This is Carignan, Syrah, Garnacha and Cab Sauvignon, and it's full in body but also juicy and lively. Savory, saucy plum and berry flavors ride a wave of crisp acidity, while the finish feels dry and exact, with minty medicinal overtones. Drink this snappy wine through 2021.
Located in Soussans to the north of the village of Margaux, the estate is owned by the Luze family. This is a fine wine, full of black fruits and firm tannins. It also has a softer perfumed side that is typical of Margaux. With this combination and the ripe berry fruits, the wine is sure to age well. Drink from 2021.
This is a powerfully tannic wine from a blend of equal proportions of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot with a serious touch of Petit Verdot. It is dark in color, dense in texture although with no hint of toughness. Instead, it is a rich wine that will age well. Drink from 2023.
This pioneering Alsatian-inspired winery always amazes with this distinctive and approachable bottling. Bright botanical aromas of mandarin orange rind, honeysuckle and pear give way to a zesty palate full of preserved citrus and marmalade flavors, all set against a firm structure and racy acidity. The finish—which is bone dry—opens with nectarine notes, then sails off with a flash of herbs.
Rich and becoming smooth, this wine is the product of fine ripe Merlot. It is packed with fruit, with tannins that are now integrated and a generous amount of weight and concentration. This is already an attractive wine, although it will be better from 2019.
Earthy underbrush, scorched earth, leather and grilled Porcini mushroom aromas lead the nose. The brawny, vigorous palate delivers fleshy wild cherry, black raspberry, anise and vanilla flavors, while firm, chewy tannins lend structure. Drink 2020–2027.
Nutty and lush with layers of peach, pear and lime fruit, this is a medium-bodied and well-balanced white. It's refreshing while offering both length and breadth on the palate.
Made from 79% Cabernet Sauvignon, 13% Merlot and 8% Cabernet Franc, this wine shows a rich, full-bodied and juicy core of soft, baked plum, cherry and vanilla flavors, with a lingering streak of cinnamon. Not a vineyard designate, this is rather a selection of complementary wine lots and barrels.
This is the second vintage of sparkling wine production for winemaker Blair Fox but the first he's controlled from start to finish, and the early results are exciting. Zesty lime, graphite and raspberry scents lead the nose, while red plum, pomegranate and citrus flavors converge. It's full and foamy on the palate.
Offering a strong opening aroma of pine resin, this wine feels crisp and crunchy on the palate, with cranberry, pomegranate and red cherry flavors. Both complex and varietal, it has a tannic backbone of power and ripeness beneath its fruit, accented with black tea.
This wine opens with red apple peel and citrus aromas that also play on the fresh, light and zippy palate, made livelier by slight spritz. It's dry, refreshing and light, with lots of red apple fruit.
This blend of the very local Petit Courbu and Petit Manseng grapes comes from the same region as Madiran. The wine is dry but rich—very rich—with apricot and honey flavors. It has concentration, a great tang of lemon and just enough acidity to keep everything in order. This is ready to drink.
This wine's nose is shy but fresh. The palate shows taut, tart fruit, with hints of red apple and citrus. This is very slender and light with a clean, dry finish.
Crisp and dry, this bright pink wine is classically styled, showing apple skin aromas and lively grapefruit flavors. Made from Pinot Noir, it's light and appetizing and has a solid, mildly grippy mouthfeel.
This richly layered wine shows coffee, leather and baked blueberry flavors. Blended with 6% Zinfandel and 6% Merlot, it packs a punch within its frame of soft, supple tannins.
This estate-grown wine is burly, brambly, dense and syrupy, with blackberry, chocolate, cinnamon and leather flavors. Its thick texture persists on the finish.
Despite a pale hue and only 12.5% abv, this is a fairly weighty wine on the palate. It's dry and silky in texture, with hints of mossy forest-floor complexity to go along with pear and melon fruit.
Like many 2009 RDD wines, this is at max ripeness and maybe over the edge. Ripe earthy plum and prune aromas feed into a heavy palate that's not exactly skipping. Prune, blackberry, blueberry and juniper flavors finish dense and settled. This is ready to drink: it is what it is.
There is plenty of spice in this wine. It offers fine acidity as well as crisp red fruits. The background, with its herbal edge and ripe berry flavors, is still not ready. The wine will be better from the end of 2017.
In the same family since the 18th century, this estate has produced a soft, smooth and rounded wine. It has weight while the red fruits are ripe and full in the mouth. It does miss some crispness, although with its forward fruitiness it is generous and ready to drink.
The wine, that has been a major player in the success of Provence rosé, epitomizes the style. Fresh with red currants and red berries, it is lively and intensely fruity with just a hint of herbs at the end. This is an immediately drinkable wine, just ready for the summer.
From a vineyard at the western end of the Côtes de Provence, this is a smooth, caramel and spice-flavored wine. It has a tangy herbal character that brings a contrast to the bright red fruits. Drink now.
This 100% Malbec rosé brings out a charming side to this sometimes tough grape. The bone-dry wine is fruity, deliciously crisp and with intense red fruitiness. Named after the owner's daughter, Julie Perrin, it comes from young vines. The wine is very ready to drink.
A ripe wine from a fine Bergerac vintage, this is balanced without being weighty. It is a blend of Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, giving both a fine tannic structure and plenty of black-currant juiciness. Drink this wine from 2018.
The wine is soft and gently fruity. With wild strawberry flavors and balanced acidity, this is a wine that floats easily. The aftertaste is lightly perfumed, with herbal hints. Drink now.
A ripe rosé, full of rich strawberry fruits and balanced acidity. It is full bodied with just the right amount of crispness and intensity to give the wine weight and concentration. This will be a fine apéritif wine.
Jean-Pierre Fayard family's main estate wine, from organic vineyards, is ripe with attractive red-berry fruit and light bright acidity. It is a finely balanced crisp and clean wine, ready for any summer's day.
Gravelly texture gives way to faint apple, preserved lemon and salt flavors in this medium-bodied, densely built white. An imprint of toasted oak barrel lingers on the finish.
Delicate spring flower and orchard fruit scents lift out of the glass. On the crisp palate, a bitter almond note underscores yellow peach, golden apple and nectarine flavors, with lively acidity.
Aggressive orange, sour pink fruit and ripe nectarine aromas dominate this rosé Sangiovese, with the slightest hint of cotton candy sweetness. The palate is compelling, with steely texture and touches of yeasty red fruit and lanolin.
Supple pink papaya, underripe tangerine and bubblegum scents make for an intriguing combination on the nose of this bottling. The palate is tightly woven and full of citrus-driven acidity, with waves of light red fruit that ripple through the midpalate.
Delicate smoke, pressed yellow flower and orchard fruit scents waft out of the glass. The vibrant, linear palate shows candied citrus, hazelnut and mineral notes, alongside bright acidity.
Light in color and bright in taste, this is a lightly fruity wine. It's the epitome of the French Riviera—hinting at red currants and with plenty of acidity. It is an immediately drinkable wine with a refreshing crisp aftertaste.
While Chardonnay may not be native to Southwest France, the Chenin Blanc is. So this blend of spicy and creamy wine has roots in its terroir. The combination of varieties gives minerality, a ripe green-fruit texture and great acidity. This fruity wine is ready to drink.
This is a delicious fruity wine, pink in color and with a swathe of crisp red-currant fruitiness. It is bright with acidity and forward fruit. Drink this attractive wine now.
This wine is a blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Malbec, Cabernet Franc, Carménère, Merlot and Petit Verdot, coming from a block designed by the late Master of Wine David Lake. Light aromas of herb, green pepper and cherry are followed by elegant fruit flavors that seem a bit faint. The oak appears to be dialed way back. Best paired with food.
Ample citrus and nettle notes give this wine an earthy aspect. The light, dry palate shimmers with tart grapefruit and lime notes. The finish is refreshing and fruity.
This wine comes from one of Côtes de Provence historic cru classé estates. It is a ripe and smooth wine with crisp acidity and a fine bite of spice. The wine is packed with red fruits and finished with refreshing acidity.
A touch of strawberry streaks through this wine's lemon scent. The palate is slender, easy and fresh, making for an uncomplicated summer drink with a dry, taut finish.
Plump red cherry and star anise aromas meet sagebrush and rust on the nose of this appellation blend. It's light bodied on the palate, where tangy acidity presents cranberry, mace and dried meat flavors.
Tasty plum and red cherry flavors and an easygoing texture make this medium-bodied wine a pleasure to drink. The aromas are quite fruity and fresh, accented with oaky, spicy notes, and the flavors seem generous. A touch of tannin provides welcome structure.
Light scratchy aromas of spiced plum and raspberry set up a racy lean palate that nobody would label as heavy. Quick simple flavors of red plum and red currant finish tangy but mild.
This is so toasty and heavily oaked that it smells burnt and acrid. In the mouth this is pinched, tannic and tough. Flavors of plum, raspberry and vanilla finish scratchy and abrasive with drum-like tightness. Drink now.
This easygoing red offers fruit-driven sensations of wild cherry, plum and accents of black pepper. On the palate, bright acidity supports the juicy fruit flavors. It's direct and clean, and will work nicely for informal occasions.
Despite its naturally tannic character, Malbec makes delicious rosé, like this, that allows the red fruit and fresh acidity free rein. The wine has a slight structure, although it is more about deliciously fresh fruit. Drink now.
Lightly oxidized aromas of apple and peach are waxy and on the cusp of being stale. In the mouth, however, this is stony and citric, with orange and lemon flavors. Finishing acidity and stoniness cut through this wine's older, heftier qualities. Drink now.
A velvety texture and ripe cherry aromas and flavors form a soft impression. While the wine is full bodied it's not so tannic as to be out of balance. It turns soft and easy on the aftertaste.
Granted, this is a young wine, but on first impression it imparts a raw, burly earthiness that's hard to completely embrace, with a sense of cooked mushrooms and sour cherry around soft, light-bodied tannins. Give it plenty of air.
Aromas of ocean breeze and white clover are raw but good. This feels round, pulpy and citrusy, with green slightly bitter flavors of citrus, honey and brine. Acidity plays a big role in keeping this afloat. Drink immediately.
The unusually low finished alcohol suggests grapes picked a bit early. Scents of violets and light flavors of purple plums give way to an herbal midpalate, with streaks of graphite and bitter chocolate. The tannins are stiff and assertive.
The wine is soft and smooth with yellow fruits and a light texture. It is ripe, generous balancing fruit against the rounded perfumed structure. The wine is ready to drink.
A smooth and ripe wine with tropical fruits as well as more crisp apple. It is ripe wine, full in the mouth with a final perfumed acidity. Give it another six months.
Dried black cherries, a hint of purple flowers and a touch of tar show on the closed nose of this wine. The palate is also extremely wound up at this stage, with hints of espresso and dark chocolate. Although the structure is impressive, it does not allow much flavor to escape right now.
Crisp and textured, this is a ripe wine with a core of tight structure. Fruity with its lemon and apple flavors, it has a lightly herbal edge that adds a green, fresh aftertaste. Drink now.
Match stick and sulfur notes fade into citrus and kiwi on an O.K. nose. Kind of late in its life already, this smells big and pulpy. Apple and bitter-melon flavors finish citrusy. Drink immediately.
This attractive, lightly honeyed wine has apple and fresh pear flavors. Fresh, fruity and crisp, it finishes with a youthful lift that suggests it will be better from mid-2016.
Delicate effervescence and blossomy perfume mark this brut-style Riesling modeled after Italian Prosecco. It's an apt comparison, actually, with its subtle sweetness and forward floral style. Fun and flighty on the palate, it's an easy-to-drink quaffer at an easy price.
Grassy aromas of red currant suggest cowhide. This has a grabby narrow palate with green-leaning raspberry flavors. Overall, this is fresh and wiry in style, with a choppy, mildly tannic finish.
Jammy aromas, figgy flavors and a very smooth mouthfeel define this medium-bodied and straightforward wine. Without much of the typical tannins, it's easy on the palate.
This medium-bodied wine has aromas that suggest strawberry jam and maple syrup, and equally fruity and ripe flavors. Touches of vanilla and chocolate add a bit of unctuous complexity, and the mouthfeel is velvety.
Herbal rubbery plum aromas are fully oaked, and thus there's a campfire/brush fire quality to the nose. There's energy on the palate, which holds steady and feels in tune. Spicy herbal red-berry flavors with a ton of secondary oak finish mild and dry.
Stewy foresty aromas of dark berry fruits are rustic and show a hint of graphite. This is severe on the palate, with hard pinching tannins. Stalky, salty flavors of roasted black plum and blackberry finish similarly, with tannic bite.
The color of slightly faded garnet, this wine has a bouquet of cassis and green pepper. Chalky tannins create a backdrop for flavors of tart cherry, lingonberry, bell pepper and petrol that make promises to the taste buds but fall short of delivering.
Aromas of chocolate, mocha and raisin lead the nose. The lean palate shows prune steeped in spirits, toast and a hint of cocoa alongside brisk acidity and raspy, almost gritty tannins that give this a rough finish.
While pressed apple and pear notes are ripe and concentrated, whiffs of allium and earth lend a savory, shadowy tone to this wine. Regardless, it's refreshing and dry in composure with moderately long length.
The Bical grape is often found in Bairrada's sparkling wines. Here, aged in wood, it undergoes a metamorphosis. It is soft and smooth, lightly oxidized with the wood dominating the fruitiness. There are spices and a ripe feel that leaves a spicy tropical fruit aftertaste.
Rounded, smooth and fruity, this is an attractive wine. With its light texture and acidity that balance the juicy black fruits, it is ripe while also poised. The aftertaste is fresh and fruity.
There are only a handful of acres of this Vitis vinifera vine left and wines like this are consequently rare, so much so that the Gueguens claim to be the only producers of 100% Sacy. This light, crisp, fruity wine is low in alcohol and bright to taste. It is ready to drink.
Produced just north of Sancerre, this wine shares many of the fresh, lightly herbal characters of those wines, just on a smaller, softer scale. Fruity with lemon zest and crisp acidity, it is ready to drink now, though will be better from late 2016.
This wine will be ideal for picnics, or to bring a little summer to the cocktail hour in the cold months. It smells like fresh-cut apples, tastes deliciously fruity and has crispness rounded off by a dash of sweetness.
Dry, rubbery aromas are low on fruit. This is pulpy and citric in feel, with flavors of apple cider, brown sugar and caramel. Sweetness carries onto the finish, which tastes mostly of molasses offset by citrus.
Black cherry, vanilla and plum aromas and flavors on this affordable Agiorgitiko are plucky and fresh, but the tannins are overall quite supple. The wine is not terribly complex but a good cohort to burgers and grilled meats.
Crisp apple and lemon are lurking within creamy wallops of oak, making this a pleasant-enough wine. The ripeness and butter make for curious companions given the bitterly tart, sour finish.
The nose is faint and neutral. In the mouth, lemony acidity creates a pointy mouthfeel, while orange and lemon flavors finish bland despite getting a boost from citric acidity.
Here's a frail red that offers weak sensations of sour cherry and strawberry alongside zesty acidity and fleeting, gritty tannins. It's short and dilute.
Tannic, thick and mired in tar and oak, this estate wine has a lack of fruit that puts it off balance.
This is a bright pink-colored wine, with caramel as much as fruit flavors. It has a light touch of acidity that gives the wine a lift at the end.
Aromas of green bean, shoe polish, carob and blackberry are heavy and oaky. A creamy weight dominates the palate, which also shows an unbalanced streak of tartaric acid. Herbal blackberry, plum and licorice flavors finish minty, with a resinous oak feel.
Bony and austere, the palate is marked by tart flavors and hints of underdeveloped stone fruit. It is crisp and clean, offering a distinctive, different take on white wine from the Southern Rhône.
Stalky white-fruit, lees and vanilla aromas are less than inviting. This feels tired, obtuse and out of shape, meaning it's past its prime and won't improve. Bitter, leesy peach and melon flavors finish similarly.
The nose on this pulpy Central Valley Sauv Blanc is candied and otherwise neutral. Tropical fruit and citrus flavors float on an undefined palate, while the finish brings orange pith tones.
Strawberry, sagebrush and graphite show on the nose. The palate offers red fruit that fades quickly into a more sour style, with dried citrus peels.
Almondy in color, with bready, drawn aromas of mustard and pithy citrus, this feels flat and chunky. Flavors of almond skins and pithy white fruits finish with a note of orange peel.
Dark slate, ripe raspberry and black cherry greet the nose on this wine. The palate shows mocha, sharp pomegranate and a bubble gum esther, with a burning acidity.
Plum and raspberry aromas are honest and pleasant. This is fruity and plummy on first take, but soon it becomes narrow and acidic, with tart, shrill berry and plum flavors that finish juicy and angular, then bitter.
Sweaty, briny aromas are borderline offputting. This is plump on the palate, with flavors of pickled citrus fruits. The same can be said for the finish, which is also bitter, resiny and overoaked.
This citrusy wine is all grapefruit, lime and citrus peel, with green notes poking through. Enjoyable, easy and varietally characteristic of Sauvignon Blanc.
Latex, earth and briar patch aromas are rough on the nose. Cranberry, red plum, olive and herbal flavors finish a bit sour, with a snappy feel.
Floral aromas are light and more suggestive of Pinot Noir than Syrah, with a hint of latex and mulch thrown in. A flat, sticky mouthfeel and a combination of sweet and green flavors finish with rubbery notes of latex and bitterness.
Rubbery, roasted berry aromas show on the nose. An astringent, tannic palate shows medicinal flavors of red plum and berry fruits along with savory notes and a shot of clove. The finish brings a salty and oaky note.
With a pink-meets-tan color and funky aromas of mustard, grass and citrus, this is challenging but ultimately modest. A lean, light body is home to leesy, mustardy flavors of passion fruit and nectarine, while the finish is citrusy but also mildly bitter.
Aromas of almond skins, pyrazines and spent white fruits struggle to draw you in. This vintage was wet and cool in Galicia, with frost issues, and this shows it. The palate is round but oily in feel, while flavors of saline water, pithy citrus and bitter melon finish peppery and soft, with low acidity.
Lemon-lime soda and limestone aromas emerge on the nose, which is slightly sweet in ripeness but also a bit shy. The palate shows apples and pears, but is quite flat.
There's a bit of fizz on this wine, which shows chalk and gummy peach candy on the nose. The palate suggests ripe apple at first then evolves into a pithy bitterness characterized by yellow grapefruit rinds.
Melony aromas come with a heavy blast of brine. This feels oily and marginal, with salty, briny flavors of orange and lime that finish disjointed before falling off.
A soft and indistinct wine that is fat and has only the merest hint of fruit. It is round with some fresh acidity at the end.
Bland peach and melon aromas come in front of a flabby, creamy palate. Basic melon and papaya flavors are limited, with a slight bitterness lingering on a soft, fleshy finish.
Rubbery, herbal aromas of stalky black fruits are typical of the variety but also gritty and horsey smelling. This has a snappy, grating mouthfeel and flavors of herbal blackberry and plum along with an acid-driven palate. Licorice, oak and vanilla flavors are present on the finish.
Chunky aromas of murky red-berry fruits, pie cherry and briny oak struggle to impress. This feels saucy and resiny, while briny, oaky, citric flavors finish scattered and hot. Overall, this woody rosado isn't shining.
Leafy, earthy cherry and plum aromas lead to a clampy, astringent palate with saucy, tart, rubbery plum flavors. Savory spice notes come up on a tannic, drying, unyielding finish.
Despite this wine's ample weight and lush texture, it doesn't come across as heavy. Instead, smooth waves of luxuriously honeyed apricot flavors glide by, accented by hints of white pepper. Drink it over the next year or two.
This venture is doing a fine job ferreting out Northern Rhône wines and offering them at realistic prices. This is a dark, concentrated Cornas, big and richly textured while retaining crispness and delineation. Plum and blackberry notes join black olive and espresso, but the overall impression remains savory, all the way through the long, velvety finish. Drink now–2020.
This is a very ripe, modern, dark-styled wine with rich berry, tobacco, cola, spice and rooty aromas. The palate is meaty and muscular, but ultimately a bit soft. Flavors of baked berry, prune and licorice finish with toasty oak as well as an extracted, ultraripe texture. Drink through 2019.
Old vines, on average 60 years old, give an extraordinarily perfumed wine that has fragrance, deep tannins and already delicious red fruits. Its youth is shown by the tight acidity and dry concentration at the end. Drink from 2018.
Rich and full in the mouth, it packs in wood and ripe yellow fruits. It has weight and a great sense of balance and ripeness that contrast with acidity and a tangy, zesty texture. Drink from 2016.
Spanish Broom, lemon blossom, pear, nectarine, candied citrus, Mediterranean herbs and intense mineral sensations are all woven together, lifted by bright acidity. Made with Carricante and Catarratto, this is already delicious now, but will develop complexity over the next few years.
The Conner Lee vineyard, from which this fruit was sourced, belongs in the top five sites for Washington Chardonnay. This wine brings both pristine apple blossom scents and supple fruit flavors, with lively acidity and plenty of toast. Barrel-fermented in two-thirds new French oak, it's an especially fine value.
Kathleen Inman has gained such a following with her Rosé that she's given it a special designation, a nod to her happy marriage. Made in a direct-press style, the dry, refreshing wine is light salmon in color and marked by aromatic grapefruit and strawberry, mouthfilling and juicy as a slice of watermelon in summer.
Starting off with grapefruit soda and apple-pear cider aromas, this well-priced Chardonnay is made by the Miller family of Bien Nacido Vineyard fame in honor of the brand's late founder. It features the steadily evolving flavor profile of wines twice its price. The citrus soda element is first, followed by a distinct, slightly bitter pear-peel profile on the midpalate, finishing with lingering vanilla toffee.
This wine is 100% varietal, sourced from both estate and neighboring (Summit View, Loess, Yellow Jacket) vineyards. It conveys subtle complexity, mixing berry, herb and stone elements gracefully on through a long, tightly wound finish. Aging in 40% new French oak adds sophisticated elegance.
A consistently lovely selection, L'Ecole's Old Vines Chenin Blanc captures the grape's floral highlights and its complex fruit flavors of peach, melon and citrus. It lingers gracefully with a rich, slightly oily mouthfeel.
This luminous, ruby colored wine opens with a lovely bouquet of violet, rose, new leather, woodland berry and baking spice. The bright palate is loaded with finesse and smooth tannins, deliveing crushed red cherry and wild strawberry accented by clove and cinnamon. Enjoy now through 2020.
The most affordable offering in the Clos de la Tech portfolio, it offers cinnamon and other baking spices plus caramel on the nose. These are followed by a palate rich in cola nut, cranberry, tar and cherry flavors. Like its sister wines, this is loaded with tannins, so expect steady evolution and improvement through 2019.
Here's a delicious, focused Nero d'Avola that seamlessly weaves together blue flower, tilled soil, exotic incense, blackberry, blueberry, black pepper, carob and subtle oak sensations. The chiseled palate is balanced, with silky tannins. Enjoy now through 2019.
A rounded wine with an attractive touch of toast and delicious acidity. Ripe and creamy, it's full of peach fruits as well as having a citrus streak. A more nervy edge twill soften as it ages. Drink from 2016.
It plays to Grenache's lighter, more refined side in color, flavor and feel. An unusual mix of fruit and savory notes includes herbs, umami, stems, cherry Jolly Rancher, green olive and wet gravel. The texture is creamy and hypnotic, gliding along to a lingering finish. A unique wine that defies easy comparison but keeps drawing you in for additional exploration.
Los Gatos-based Testarossa is building a powerful reputation as a single-vineyard specialist, but this more accessibly priced cuvée from Monterey County rivals their best efforts. There is nuttiness, brioche and slightly sour orange on the nose, followed by a very soft mouthfeel, with flavors of pound cake, vanilla cookie, peach cobbler and candied grapefruit.
The Lewis vineyard is already proven as a first-rate site for Syrah. This new entry in Va Piano's black label series verifies it once again. Elegant and complex, it sends up subtle citrus scents, along with concentrated flavors of bush and berry, licorice, mocha and smoke. The details pile on and the finish lingers gracefully.
This gorgeous expression boasts an intense bouquet of stone fruit, flint and Mediterranean herbs. The juicy palate delivers concentrated peach, citrus and pink grapefruit flavors, accented by mineral and mint. It has structure, elegance and incredible energy.
This structured yet polished wine, made from a blend of 50% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Aglianico and 20% Merlot, opens with intense aromas of tilled earth, mature black fruit, leather, graphite and spice. The Juicy palate offers fleshy blackberry, black currant, black pepper and mineral alongside silky smooth tannins. Hold for more complexity. Drink 2015–2025.
One of Amadieu's top wines, this is a full-bodied, richly textured Gigondas that nevertheless maintains a sense of precision in its assertive herb-laced notes of plum and espresso. Cracked pepper plays a role, too,  adding focus to the long, silky finish. Drink now–2020.
This solid, bold wine has a velvet texture. Black fruits are rounded with a generous texture, although a firmer, tannic character waits in the background. It is structured and elegant. Drink from 2017.
Winemakers James Ontiveros and Paul Wilkins tease awesomeness out of the legendary Bien Nacido Vineyard with this Pinot Noir—and Ontiveros should know how, since he worked for the vineyard for years. On the nose, there's sea salt, caramel, cotton candy and pepper-teriyaki steak. Although it's leaner on the palate, it still features ripe raspberries, milk chocolate and sweetened coffee.
A big step up from the 2009, the 2010 L'Arzelle is nuanced and silky. Pepper, porcini and plum pudding scents grace the nose, while the palate delivers dark fruit, black olive and espresso flavors that ease into a long finish. Drink now–2018.
Despite showing a relatively dark straw hue, this wine is fresh and floral on the nose. The full-bodied palate is lushly textured, showing amply concentrated melon and apricot fruit and a dusting of white pepper. Drink it over the next year or two.
Ripe and bold, it balances acidity and texture. Very mineral in character, it is textured and tight at this young stage. Green fruits, citrus and red apples show the fruity side. Age until 2016.
Dark in color, this wine is concentrated in ripe blueberry and blackberry fruit. A streak of tropical succulence and violets characterize the nose. Aged 11 months in French oak, the wood is present but subtle. Restrained tannins are topped by a creamy mouth-filling finesse.
Fresh in peach with an herbal, savory edge, this wine begs to be analyzed and enjoyed over many sips. From the colder reaches of the Russian River Valley's smaller Green Valley area, it's Alsatian in its crispness and linear intensity, clean and long-lingering in lemon zest.
This is a ripe, lush wine with aromas of raisin, blackberry, dried herbs and sandalwood. The mouthfeel is grand and wide, with big tannins and lemony acidity. Flavors of blackberry, fig, vanilla and chocolate are highly likeable, while the finish is rich but not overly deep or structured. Drink through 2019.
To me, this luxury cuvée loses a bit of its identity to oak and ripeness while remaining an excellent red wine. Delicious? You bet. It's dark and intense, marked by the vanilla and cedar notes that overlay cherry and cracked pepper. The tannins are supple to the point of creaminess, creating a lush, soft mouthfeel.
Aromas of pear, red apple and pineapple lead to sweet green and red apple flavors with a tart finish.
Briny, wiry red-fruit aromas are mild but saucy. This blend of Garnacha and Tempranillo feels ordinary, while flavors of briny plum are fresh but limited. A finish with a healthy pulse is fine for what this is.
An earthy, raisiny opening comes around a bit but never suggests freshness. Similarly, this feels blocky, chunky and tannic. Baked flavors of raisin and plum conclude with sticky tannins and grab.
Muted aromatics tease on the nose before chewy texture and full-bodied weight enter the scene. Deceptively light and airy at first, the wine then delves into a hearty taste of marzipan and oak.
Floral, soapy aromas of tomato, cherry and currant are light and lack commitment. This Tempranillo-blend feels rocky despite being light in body, while candied plum, red currant and rose hip flavors hollow out quickly and finish with scratchy tannins.
Brisk and light-footed, there's a delicacy and restraint to tart grapefruit and honeydew flavors in this off-dry Riesling. It's not a deeply concentrated or complex wine, but offers thirst quenching refreshment. Drink now.
Clear and lucid to the eye, this Verdejo shows pine, grapefruit, orange and apple aromas along with oily pith. The mouthfeel is more plump and wet than defined, while lychee and melon flavors are offset by tolerable bitter pyrazines and grapefruit flavors.
Whiffs of blossom and preserved red cherry lend delicate perfume to this exceptionally light-footed Pinot Noir. Tart cranberry and raspberry flavors are refreshing and crisp, but almost ephemeral in concentration. The finish is swift. Drink now.
Wiry, withdrawn plum aromas are a touch floral. A jagged palate feel with high acidity and hard tannins frames plum flavors. This is bullish overall and a bit fiery and hot on the finish.
Produced from Pinot Gris, this is so crisp and fresh. It has light red currant flavors that give an intensely fruity character to this attractive wine that is ready to drink now.
This crisp wine has a creamy background that presents an attractive blend of fresh apples with honey and lemon. It's a light, perfumed wine that is ready to drink now.
Reuilly has the peculiarity of having rosés from Pinot Gris, even though its reds are from Pinot Noir. This perfumed wine with its pale color brings out the slightly dusty character of the grape. That's contrasted with the intense acidity and black currant fruit flavors. Drink now.
This is a crisp, fruity and well-balanced wine. Along with its red-currant fruit and bright acidity, it has a touch of caramel that adds richness. The wine is ready to drink.
Turned earth, coffee grounds, asphalt and dried cherries show on the mushroomy nose of this widely available bottling. Black tea and strong coffee flavors emerge through a thick veil of chunky tannins.
Although the producer is based in the Loire, it sources grapes for this wine from other regions of France as well as locally. That gives the wine perhaps a richer, softer, less fresh character. It is an easy, apple-fruity wine with light acidity.
Matchstick sulfur and background red-fruit aromas lead into a simple palate that's wet and lively but doesn't offer a lot to latch onto. Generic citrus and cherry Lifesaver flavors finish with a note of briny salt.
A whiff of red-apple skins, red plum and spice make for a reasonably clean and fresh nose. This feels plump but still vital. Pithy flavors of citrus and cantaloupe turn more pithy on the finish.
While this foamy rosé is not elevated, it should appeal to those who like sweet Moscato bubblies. Candied flavors of raspberry, lychee and dried mango finish with a note of pineapple syrup.
Cherry and raspberry aromas are simple as pie, while this feels a touch astringent and drawing. Tart but fresh plum and raspberry flavors are slightly briny. Juicy and satisfactory on the finish.
A perfumed wine, this offers fresh apple and light spice flavors and considerable acidity. It is light and fruity, with a crisp lemon-zest flavor at the end. The vineyard of the Giennois is close to the city of Orléans, making it the most northerly Loire vineyard. Drink now.
There's not much overt fruit on the nose of this wine, which instead shows plenty of papilla chile and bell-pepper elements. The body is light and peppery, proving easy to sip with red fruit and peppercorns, leading into a vanilla-kissed finish.
Light, creamy and fruity, this fresh, lightly mineral wine has plenty of fresh apple and citrus flavors. There is no suggestion of wood, and the wine is all about fresh fruit. Drink now.
The nose on this wine is fairly shy with pencil shavings, danker herbs and a plum-fruit backbone, which predicts a very dry palate. However, the flavors are extremely ripe and sweet, with strawberry, black plum, mission fig and vanilla flavors.
Though it's designated as reserve-level, and lists rather high alcohol, this seems thin, stemmy and green. The fruit is nearly invisible. The addition of 14% Cabernet Franc has not had any noticeable impact. Drink up.
Herbal and excessive in wood tannins, this has strong elements of jalapeño and pepper amidst a full-bodied expression of black plum and chocolate.
Tar and black fruit emerge from the shadows of big tannins that pucker on the palate, begging for more time to soften. Robust and full bodied with a warm ripeness, it finishes flat.
Leather, raw wood and berry aromas start off this young wine. The palate is fairly raw and gripping, while herbal, peppery blackberry flavors finish with a toasty oak note and tannic rub.
Briny tropical-fruit aromas suggest pickles and cactus. This is chunky in build, with citrusy acidity. Briny citrus flavors cannot be further defined, while citric acidity keeps this fresh through the finish.
Soft and fresh, this medium-bodied wine has clean, neutral flavors and is easy to sip. Aromas are a little peachy while flavors suggest pears. The texture is mild.
Made from Pinot Gris, this pale colored wine has just a blush of rosé. It is so fresh and perfumed, only lightly textured. A fine apéritif style, the wine has juicy red currant flavors, topped with orange zest. Drink now.
A mellow, neutral nose doesn't push the envelope. In the mouth, this is round but punchy, with some excess weight. Flavors of apple juice, pear and melon finish with flavors of lime, apple cider and powdered sugar.
This is completely dominated by oak. It doesn't have the fruity richness to support the toasted notes and invasive wood sensations. It finishes on an astringent note.
Aromas of bath oil, candle wax and lychee set up a chunky palate with tropical flavors of lychee and melon. This blend of Torrontés and Chardonnay is round, plump and just acidic enough to hold its own.
Strong, caramelized oak stars in this dry, rather one-dimensional Cabernet. Despite some black currant, anise and mocha flavors, it's like drinking toothpicks.
This dark-purple Cab is full of berry, horse hide and cola aromas. It's full bodied and chunky, with herbal, mossy flavors of buttery oak, salty berry and earth. A salinic, briny flavor lingers on the beefy finish.
This is a candy-jammy Merlot, with flavors of nougat, sour cherry Lifesavers and cola. It's fine for big parties or as an inexpensive house red wine.
This is a simple Pinot Grigio, with aromas of white spring flowers and green apple. The palate is slightly round, with a ripe pear flavor lifted by tart Granny Smith apple accents.
Blended with 15% Riesling and fermented and aged in stainless steel, it's lightly aromatic with notes of stone fruit and macerated grape skins. It drinks off-dry with the flavor concentration a bit wanting.
There's a bitter apricot pit flavor to this blush Pinot Noir. It's dry and crisp with acidity that brightens peach and citrus flavors.
Sassy aromas of stemmy red fruits, haystack and herbs set up a full yet raw feeling palate with herbal, gr een-leaning flavors of tart plum and raspberry. A shallow finish fades quickly.
his off-dry wine has a sugary touch with flavors of ripe apricots, oranges and peaches, along with the acidity and petrol notes that Riesling is famous for.
You'll detect aromas reminiscent of wood shop on this wine. Both the nose and the palate reveal heavy-handed oak sensations along with espresso, vanilla and a hint of burned rubber.
There's a toughness to the mouthfeel of this Cab. It's mainly from the tannins, which are hard and angular. The wine is very rich and fruity with flavors of black currants. Ready to drink now.
A mouthful of ripe, fruity jam and baking spice from a vineyard also sourced by the producer for Cabernet Sauvignon.
Old-school Zinfandel, with enormously high alcohol. It tastes heavy in brown sugar, blackberries and blackstrap molasses.
Blended from undisclosed grape varieties, this wine offers a myriad of citrus fruit, peach, vanilla and honey flavors.
Shy aromas of cherries, peppery herbs, char and spiced mocha lead to a light- to medium-bodied palate that feels silky and slick. Bright acidity gives the finish some lift, and it ends on an accent of cherry lozenge.
This Malbec rosé is peachy and heavy on the nose. That's followed by a plump palate without much acidic kick. Flavors of fading stone fruits turn mildly bitter on a waxy feeling finish. Drink immediately or wait for the next vintage.
Dusty, earthy and herbal defines the nose on this minty Cab. There are also whiffs of animal and pickle on the bouquet. This feels raw and tight, with crisp acids and peppery, lightly herbal flavors of plum and berry. A minty, dry finish is slightly harsh.
Bland berry aromas precede a pasty feeling, cloying palate with lactic, creamy flavors of oak and generic berry fruits. This is drying on the finish.
A blend of 85% Merlot, 10% Syrah, 5% Cabernet Sauvignon, this has an oxidative aroma that overrides the scents of cassis, blackberry, spiced mocha and vanilla. The medium-bodied palate feels soft and malleable, and it comes with a raisin-like edge. Finishes a bit short.
Earthy in character, this is a rustic wine. It does have attractive red fruits, and balancing acidity but these elements come up against a barnyard character and firm tannins.
While this wine is dry and crisp with acidity, it straddles the border of ripeness. On the plus side are vibrant lemon, lime and honey flavors. On the downside is a green, feline streak.
This is a light-bodied, simple wine, marked by brisk acidity and sour cherry candy flavors. Drink up.
This breathes alcohol and raisiny aromas, while baked flavors of prune and raisin come with accents of licorice and mint. The finish is stewy in flavor, with a lot of oak and weight.
Grassy, compost-like aromas carry a peanut accent and not much vivid fruit. This pinches down on what amounts to a clampy palate, while crisp, mildly green berry flavors finish minty and peppery.
A slight Cabernet, thin and simple, with black cherry, herb and oak flavors. Drink up.
A scent of burnt sugar hits the nose first, followed by blasts of papaya and kiwi. The palate tastes off-dry, and it offers a caramelized flavor. The wine clings to the palate on the finish, which gives it some length.
High alcohol gives this Bordeaux-Rhône blend a sweet, hot mouthfeel, while overripe fruit suggests raisins and prunes. Still, it's a sound wine that will find plenty of admirers. Ready now.
A light sheath of sulfur sits atop the aromas of woodshop, brown spice, dried strawberry and chopped nuts. This supple Merlot sports low to medium amounts of dusty tannins, which frame the flavors of mocha and cherry. The longer the wine sits in the glass, the more the flavors seem to fade.
Boysenberry aromas are modest and lack spine. In the mouth, this is standard, with oak-based flavors of toast, chocolate and vanilla on top of generic berry. The finish is thick and oaky, with a touch of raisiny flavor.
A moderately aromatic Merlot with notes of raspberry, ash, and herbs. Completely coats the palate with an unusually chalky, thick feel.
Colleventano (100% Pecorino) is aged in stainless steel to enhance the grape's natural aromas of ripe peach, candied fruit, sage and lemon. The wine is bright and dense on the palate with a playful touch of almond marzipan on the close.
Plenty of tart, savory fruit in this Pinot, with cherries and pomegranates turning a little earthy and tomatoey. Brightened with tart acidity, it's an easy wine to drink now.
Deliciously attractive wine, crisp and clean as possible. It has a light caramel edge along with a more fruity aspect. To finish, the wine is light and bright.
There's a spicy touch of white pepper or dried sage backed by peach and melon that gives this Friulano extra lift and intensity. It feels simple and thin in the mouth but it does shows signs of territorial identity thanks to its unique bouquet.
This young Pinot is tight and stubbornly hard, showing some rhubarb and pepper scented fruit, with just a hint of raspberry. It's underscored with a quick, slightly chalky, tannic finish.
Intense tangerine notes are flecked with hints of powdered sugar, dried herbs and potpourri on this pleasant off-dry Riesling. It's easy drinking with lush, slightly overripe fruit, but finishes quite dry with a steely, honeyed feel.
Tastes rich and forward, with cherry pie, blueberry and sandalwood flavors. The color is dark, and the wine is a little too soft, as well as hot in alcohol. Drink up.
Dry and tannic, this fresh young Cabernet shows good varietal flavors of blackberries and currants, touched by smoky oak. There are some green notes. It's a sound wine, but unlikely to develop, so drink up.
Soft, rich and sweet, this is an easy Merlot for drinking now. It has ripe, forward cherry, mocha and oak flavors, with a hint of bacon that suggests pairing with pork-based entrées.
A rounded wine, herbs, spice and yellow fruits bringing out a full and ripe feel. There is an attractive level of acidity that gives the wine a lively feel while not losing sight of a warm, Mediterranean feel.
This soft, gentle wine is ready to drink now with umami-rich meats, especially charcuterie. It has very rich flavors of raspberry jam, baking spices and toast.
A crisp, clean, deliciously fruity wine. It's light, fragrant, touched with red berries and attractive acidity. There's no complexity here, just pure fruitiness and freshness.
Wayward aromas of tropical fruits and diesel fumes are warm and mild. The palate is plump and slightly citrusy, while flavors of white grapefruit, orange and pineapple end with pithy bitterness. On the finish, this is citrusy in flavor and pulpy in texture.
Tannic and powerfully built, Muscardini's Sangiovese veers into slightly sour-currant territory and offers a long, leathery finish.
After a gritty, fruity smelling opening, this Cabernet-led blend offers fresh, easy flavors of raspberry and plum that conclude simply, light and mellow. This is a fresh, fruity style of red wine with little oak that's more than appealing for the price.
This is sourced from several Milbrandt vineyards, and a blend of both barrel (one third) and tank (two thirds) fermented grapes. It's soft and creamy, with melon, green banana and other light tropical fruits. A pleasant, easy-drinking quaffer, it finishes with a lick of vanilla custard.
Juicy and ripe with flavors of peach, tangerine and apple, this is an easy-drinking, off-dry Riesling. Delicately structured, it finishes moderately long with a pleasantly bitter lime pith note.
This lovely rosato (made with the Montepulciano grape) would pair with spicy Indian dishes or Thai curry. The wine opens with a bright pink color and segues to ripe fruit and wild berry aromas.
This has a hard shell keeping it closed down, despite hours of airing. Cranberry fruit with a hint of mineral seems to quickly hit a wall and stop short. More bottle age may help to open it up a bit.
This is a linebacker wine, at 15.7% abv, bursting with roasted coffee, licorice and dry tannins all around. Soft, supple and round, and fully concentrated, the finish could use a bit more harrumph. The back label's suggestion to pair this wine with short ribs is a good call.
From the little-known Rubicone appellation in Central Italy, this blend of Sangiovese (70%) and Cabernet Sauvignon shows great aspirations. Ultimately, the wine delivers its promise only in part. The fruit tones are dark and jammy and there's a toasted note of tar or black rubber at the back.
This easy blend of Sangiovese (80%) and Cabernet Sauvignon represents the quintessential pizza wine thanks to its bright acidity that counters melted mozzarella and its easy berry aromas that promise not to overwhelm the other toppings. Cherries and blueberries add zest and freshness.
A deliciously fragrant, fresh wine, bright and lively. It has intense, tangy acidity that cuts right through red currant and raspberry fruit flavors. Ready to go now. Screwcap.
In much the same mold as its companion, the ghost in the machine Red, this is almost all Syrah, with a bit more bite and focus. Purple plum fruit glides smoothly into a lightly toasty finish. A fine every day red with plenty of flavor.
This is a good but generic Chilean Cabernet, meaning it's a bit herbal and fiery, with eucalyptus on the nose. In the mouth, this is medium in intensity and modest in character. Flavors of herbal red berry, carob and dried leaves end with a touch of heat.
A full-bodied yet crisp Chardonnay, balanced with just a tiny hint of lingering ripeness. Fine for mid-week meals.
With its soft bouquet and friendly but easygoing melon and apple flavors, this ranks as a good but chunky SB with maturity and moderate oxidation already showing. It's good, tasty and easygoing, but it lacks the sizzle and snap Chilean SB is known for. Drink immediately.
For a spring or summer sipper, this fits the bill. The nose is neutral except for light apple, pear and lime aromas. In the mouth, it's zesty and linear, with acidic cut. Flavors of white pepper powder, fresh yellow pepper and citrus lead to a crisp, clean finish.
Aromatic and bracing, this is a fruity mix of lime, nectarine and pink grapefruit. Foris wines are notable for their freshness, purity of fruit and overall immaculate winemaking.
This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Nero d'Avola and Merlot opens with bright intensity, especially in terms of the quality of its fruit aromas. The palate is smooth and silky, with a long, fruit-driven finish.
Winemaker Francesco Spadafora shows his deft hand with Syrah in this easygoing wine. It has intensity and complexity, with layers of spice, red cherry, leather and black pepper.
This is a very pretty wine, though not nearly as substantial as the 2009. Fruit flavors of strawberry and light cherry are set over tart acids. The palate softens up a bit and runs through a quick, clean fade.
This barrel-fermented wine reflects the modest ripeness that marked the 2010 vintage. Scents of almond paste, orange peel, citrus, melon and pear intertwine, and the wine's flavors carry light suggestions of them all, along with a touch of caramel. It's drinking well right now, so why wait?
This is a blend of Nero d'Avola and Merlot in almost equal measures. The first varietal offers aromas of red fruit, wild fennel and pistachio. The second grape lends softness and bright cherry flavor. There's a touch of tar and graphite on the close.
This attractive blend of 53% Sémillon and 47% Riesling offers a bouquet of petrol and apricot, while the palate is lively, with honeyed flavors of caramel, vanilla and apricot. It's a bit sticky on the finish, but overall this is an eye-opener. Drink now–2015.
Somewhat volatile aromas suggest stems and a bit of nail polish before the herbal fruit surfaces. This chewy, tannic wine does not live up to its single vineyard promise.
A blend of Grenache, Syrah, Cinsault and Counoise, this is bone dry and brisk in acidity, with complex flavors of mineral, herb, sour cherry candy, red currant and white pepper. Although production was only 2,000 cases, this wine is worth the search.
For a Morgon, this is relatively light, showing more fruit than structure, with freshness that's tempered by a firm edge and minerality. Keep for a year, or drink now.
This is a soft, broadly fruity Chardonnay, with near-tropical ripeness. Banana and papaya flavors dominate, accented by pretty baking spices and a touch of mineral.
Huge floral intensity opens the bouquet of this Fiano di Avellino, with notes of honeysuckle, rose and jasmine that are followed by accents of citrus, pear and a touch of rubber. The finish is creamy and soft.
This blend of Incrocio Manzoni and Vermentino opens with bold floral intensity, plus solid background tones of peach and lemon mousse. It offers a creamy, soft mouthfeel that could stand up to white meat or shellfish.
This has a firmly tannic structure and juicy fruit, suggesting its aging potential. It is rich and ripe, with black cherry and plum flavors that create a generous finish.
Made from fruit grown in Washington State but vinified in California, this is a delicious, lively white wine. It's dry and brisk in acidity, with orange, lime, Asian pear, honeysuckle and white pepper flavors.
Peach, apple and pear aromas are smooth and easy to like. The mouthfeel is juicy and fresh, which Leyda Valley is known for, while the flavors of citrus, apple and nectarine come with acid-driven snap. As a whole, this is more fruity and focused than oaky and heavy.
This offers ripe cherry and blackberry notes, followed by bright acidity and a palate that bears medium density. It's a great food wine to pair with breaded veal, sausage or meatloaf.
This offers loads of freshly ground peppercorn, backed by touches of caper and black olive. The blackberry and plum fruits gives this wine a soft, yielding feel despite the tannins. The fruit is sourced from vineyards at various altitudes on Mt. Vulture.
Cerasuolo di Vittoria is a light, fragrant red wine that pairs with creamy shrimp risotto or white meat. Measured and elegant in terms of intensity, it offers pleasing freshness.
Pepi is doing a great job lately making inexpensive white wines, and with this Sauvignon Blanc, the winery really knocks it out of the park. This is bone dry, mouthwateringly tart in acidity and complex, offering flavors of green grass, gooseberry, lime, vanilla and white pepper. It should be relatively easy to find thanks to its production of 10,000 cases.
This best-of-barrels Chardonnay is oaky, offering waves of butterscotch and buttered toast that dominate the tart underlying flavors of pineapple and lime. It's certainly rich and well-structured, but quite oaky.
This is quite unusual, loaded with notes of green herb, leaf, fiddlehead fern, pepper and lemon verbena. It's herbal and not at all disagreeable, though fruit-lovers may want to look elsewhere. Just 50 cases of this wine were made.
Perfumed and fragrant, this is a blend from a number of Kamptal vineyards. It's bright, with an aroma of wild flower that mingles with flavors of currant, crisp apple and mineral-like acidity. Age this for six months or drink it now.
Bright nuances of black cherry and prune are backed by softly toasted aromas of nut and spice. The one year of oak aging has helped to further soften the wine's velvety texture.
Easy and gentle in structure, this has lots of Napa Valley polish and flair. It shows delicious notes of blackberry, green olive, sweet oak and spice, wrapped into firm, refined tannins and brightened by crisp acidity.
A toasty streak of espresso-flavored richness marks this single-vineyard offering. The fruit is ripe and clean, with a tart red-berry flavor at the core.
Clean and easy drinking, this is created using a fruit from all three estate vineyards. Lightly spicy apple, pear and peach flavors combine gracefully, giving the wine a solid and appealingly fruity core.
Leaner and earthier than many Chardonnays, with notes of green and dried herbs alongside the citrus and tropical fruits. Oak plays a modest role. All in all, this discrete wine is best enjoyed now.
A classically structured wine, this has a smoky wood flavor that's balanced by a fresh black-currant note. It has a juicy edge, a dark chocolate note and a slight bitterness that should fade. This needs to age for 4–5 years. Château Loudenne is situated by the Gironde estuary.
While this shows its youthful tannins, it also bears blackberry fruit and juicy acidity. The chateau has produced a stylish wine that's rich while still keeping plenty of freshness and acidity. Age for 3–4 years.
Intense blueberry and blackberry notes penetrate through this fruity, forward Pinot Noir. Hints of savory herbs add elegance to an otherwise one-dimensional palate that finishes with big, coarse tannins.
Botrytis aromas feature touches of peach and honey. This is sticky but reasonably acidic, with flavors of peach, lychee and honey. On the finish, it falls off in terms of clarity and turns somewhat bitter.
After a rough, rubbery start to the aromatics, herbal spice and dark fruit notes come out. This shows a racy palate with high acidity. Herbal red-plum flavors are scratchy, while the finish loses fruit and replaces it with espresso bitterness.
Green aromas of grass and mint lead the way on this unspecified blend of red grapes. The palate is full and solid in feel, while sweet, almost candied flavors of blackberry finish creamy but with a sweetness that seems artificial.
Aromatic notes of lychee and rose are accented with a foresty note of pine needles on this curious Gewürztraminer. It's dry and lean on the palate, with a bitter palate that overwhelms otherwise pleasant floral and fruit tones.
Crisp red-fruit aromas are simple, direct and clean. This bounces along on rubbery tannins and tastes like blackberry and toast. Mild bitterness and grabbiness get going on the finish.
This easy-drinking Cabernet has flavors of blackberry jam and toast, wrapped into firm tannins. It won't improve with age, so drink up with a juicy burger.
This is a curious, soapy wine with considerable bitterness. There is a toasty edge that shows some bottle maturity, and contrasts with the tense, tight acidity.
Just lightly spicy, this is a simple, gentle wine. It is on the dry side, and hints at apple and pear flavors. There's a light acidity on the finish. Screwcap.
Savory red-cherry notes domaine this wine, with a light body, some spicy accents and lots of refreshing, enlivening acidity.
Simple, direct flavors of pineapple and orange jam, vanilla bean and buttered popcorn mark this Chardonnay. It has just enough acidity to keep things balanced.
Fans of fresh, juicy fruit will love this wine's raspberry and cherry jam, red licorice and strawberry Twizzler flavors. The blend is based on Syrah, and the alcohol is high enough to give it some heat on the finish.
The blend of Sangiovese, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon is ripe with raisinated fruit flavors that finish a bit Port-like. It's hot with alcohol, but finishes dry.
Soft and rich with pineapple, lemon candy and oak flavors, this simple Chardonnay has the benefit of acidity for balance. It's a nice, basic Chard at an everyday price.
This Sangiovese is ruby-brick in color with a texture that's light and silky. Not the best representation of this otherwise fine vineyard, here, high alcohol gives cherry flavors a jalapeño pepper heat..
Barrel aging and contact with lees give this wine a rich creaminess, and there's also plenty of acidity. Hints of unripe grapes lend mint and ammonia notes that dominate citrus flavors.
Just off dry, this is a ripe and full-bodied wine that's balanced with acidity. Touched with delicate spice, it has an attractive, open feel that makes it very drinkable now.
Light in color and with considerable acidity, this wine boasts cherry fruits along with a dry texture and spice. It is not for aging.
This is an easy, light and fragrant wine that seems destined to accompany fish. It has a touch of spice from the Pinot Gris and Sylvaner in the blend, along with a creamy, light aftertaste.
Blended from Petite Sirah, Syrah and Barbera, this is a hearty red wine that's tannic and jammy, with a honeyed finish. It's fine with burgers.
This wine lacks freshness, although it does have some attractive red berry flavors. Firm tannins and wood aging notes give the wine a drying aftertaste.
Aromas of tarmac, burned rubber and oak open this 70-30 blend of Montepulciano and Sangiovese. The heavy dose of oak carries on to the palate along with espresso, vanilla and saucy sensations of stewed, sweetened plum. This lacks balance and finesse. Terroir Society, Potomac Selections.
Usually Natura is better than this; this hot-vintage wine shows animal notes, spice and jumpy plum and cherry aromas. It's edgy and raw in feel, with hollow, green-leaning flavors and minty oak. An echo of green rattles across the finish.
Here's a basic Pinot Noir, simple and rustic, but not without its charms. It's dry and silky, with cherry pie and oak flavors.
The Rocky Top Zin has a backbone of cinnamon and ripe plum amidst puckering tannins and a hint of barnyard.
Mulchy, ashy and green up front, this is a tough one from the start. Crisp, raw, hard and rough in the mouth, with leafy flavors of green herbs and olive, this is varietal to an extreme, with finishing notes of carob and green-leaning red fruits.
There's a perfumy floral note that persists through the nose and palate of this Riesling. It's bright with acidity, but lacks concentration on the palate. Finishes briskly.
This is a Pinot Noir rosé that is very light and dry. The acidity is strikingly high leaving an impression of sharpness.
This smells pretty good: cherry and plum aromas with mild oak are solid. The palate, however, is hard and has a plastic-like feel. Flavors of plum and berry finish bitter like espresso.
This is a dry wine that's a bit acidic and watery with thin sour-cherry candy flavors and a hit of oak.
Fresh and fruity, this cherry-red rosé cloaks its strawberry and raspberry fruit in a graham-cracker frame. Tart fruit flavors carry an initial impression of sweetness, but in fact this is finished dry.
Gobs of ripe fruit flavor and a smooth texture make this medium-bodied wine delicious and appealing. It smells like molasses and boysenberries, tastes jammy, and has no harsh tannins.
Lusciously jammy notes of preserved black cherry and raspberry are forward and friendly in this simple yet consistent Pinot Noir. It's briskly balanced in acidity and wraps up neatly on the finish. Drink now.
Made with organically grown grapes and with no added sulfites, this opens with earthy aromas of black-skinned fruit, ground pepper and a whiff of truffle. The lively, simple palate offers black cherry and clove alongside vibrant acidity.
The color of slightly faded garnet, this wine has a bouquet of cassis and green pepper. Chalky tannins create a backdrop for flavors of tart cherry, lingonberry, bell pepper and petrol that make promises to the taste buds but fall short of delivering.
Aromas of chocolate, mocha and raisin lead the nose. The lean palate shows prune steeped in spirits, toast and a hint of cocoa alongside brisk acidity and raspy, almost gritty tannins that give this a rough finish.
While pressed apple and pear notes are ripe and concentrated, whiffs of allium and earth lend a savory, shadowy tone to this wine. Regardless, it's refreshing and dry in composure with moderately long length.
The Bical grape is often found in Bairrada's sparkling wines. Here, aged in wood, it undergoes a metamorphosis. It is soft and smooth, lightly oxidized with the wood dominating the fruitiness. There are spices and a ripe feel that leaves a spicy tropical fruit aftertaste.
Rounded, smooth and fruity, this is an attractive wine. With its light texture and acidity that balance the juicy black fruits, it is ripe while also poised. The aftertaste is fresh and fruity.
Fruity and aromatic, this blend of Fernão Pires, Arinto and Sauvignon Blanc is fresh with attractive acidity and also riper tropical fruit and pear flavors. It has a mineral texture that gives the a fine structure. Drink now.
Fresh and easy drinking, this informal wine opens with aromas of dark cherries, blackberries and a whiff of clove that carry over to the straightforward palate. It's straightforward but well made.
Funky aromas of scorched earth, overripe plum, game and a whiff of barnyard lead the nose. The palate has a raw quality, showing unripe red berry, leather, cured meat and a hint of chewing tobacco. Overall, this is rustic and lacks fruit richness.
Baked plum, baking spice coconut and vanilla aromas lead the nose. The evolved, fleeting palate offers raisin, nut and a hint of clove. Drink now.
This is a solid and textured wine, bringing out structure and black fruit flavors. The wine has acidity and a fresher background giving shape to the ripe fruits. Drink now.
Light and fruity, this offers a lively mousse and crisp red currant and berry flavors. A slight bitterness detracts from what is otherwise a fresh wine.
This ripe wine is intense and full bodied, with sultry layers of baked apple and peach. A flinty note marks the finish.
This agreeable and affordable wine has cinnamon and cherry jelly aromas, fresh and light fruit flavors, medium body, and a soft texture.
A light, bright and fresh wine, the epitome of a fruity rosé, this is made from Moscatel Roxo, a pink-skinned grape. It has plenty of lively acidity, a lightly perfumed character and a final burst of red fruits.
This Torrontés smells round, leesy, soft and short on particular fruit aromas. Due to its age, this feels plump and low on edgy acidity. Powdery citrus and lime flavors end flat, with some burn. This is probably past its prime, but it's still in good shape to enjoy now.
A simple bouquet offers light apple and melon aromas, while the palate shows some malic acidity before it softens. Melon, apple and a touch of butter work together to create a mild flavor profile, while this is mellow and short on the finish.
Heavy oak aromas rest forcefully on top of plum and black cherry scents. This is fresh and proper in feel, with dominant oaky graininess and medicinal berry flavors that finish woody like a plank.
The aim of this wine presumably is to show off the fruit quality from the quinta. It does succeed, but at the expense of complexity and richness. So the wine is tight with tannins and edgy with a texture that is dry and firm. Give it another year until 2017 before drinking.
Floral scents of violet and iris lead the nose on this informal red. The straightforward palate offers raw black cherry, cranberry and white pepper alongside firm, drying tannins that leave a raspy finish.
High in acidity and low in oak, this is a white that pushes the limits, reflective of the extreme, cool-climate vineyards from which it sources. Fresh-squeezed lemon is the star, the wet-stone minerality razor sharp.
Toast, dried sage, menthol and a whiff of coconut lead the nose. The raw, extracted palate offers roasted coffee bean, espresso, anise, coconut and hints of dried berry but it lacks fruit richness. Burly, astringent tannins give it a bitter, mouth-puckering finish.
Smoky, cedary aromas and flavors dominate this bold, full-bodied and tannic wine made from 80% Zinfandel with Petite Sirah, Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon. Spicy, toasted, almost sweet flavors of oak are very apparent.
This ripe, creamy wine has apricot flavors laced with citrus acidity. Lightly textured, it is still developing and needs to age for the next few months. Drink from the end of 2016.
Cooked plums, ripe strawberries, cola and a bit of clove make for an interesting nose on this bottling from a reliable and widely accessible producer. The palate shows slate, rust and pencil shavings as well as nutmeg and sour cranberries.
A very pleasant cherry-raspberry aroma and similarly fruity flavors bring a lot of appeal to this light-bodied and not very tannic wine. It's smooth and easy to drink, with no rough edges.
This unpretentious, grapy and slightly herbal-tasting dessert wine is sweet but thick in texture and superfruity in flavor.
Don't be fooled by the low alcohol—this is fully ripened, finished, dry yet packed with delicious pear fruit flavors. Light suggestions of grapefruit and green apple add interest, and the fullness and freshness of the fruit is most impressive.
A very soft scent of pear rises from the glass. The mellowness of this pear fruit is expressed fully on the concentrated palate. Bosc pear shimmers and is boosted by slight residual sweetness. The finish is off dry, balanced and generous.
The beautiful perfume that unites tangerine peel and apple, lemon and blossom makes for an inviting nose. The palate brims with the same generous and utterly fruit-driven flavors. This is Riesling at its most charming. The finish is off dry, but all the more fruit driven for that.
Light and earthy, this wine glows in spicy citrus, with a rhubarb-and-strawberry tartness and black tea accents. Medium-bodied, it shows an underlying crispness that belies its weight and depth, the oak subtle yet supportive.
One of Dan Kessler's many Pinot bottlings, this shows tart but deep black plum skin aromas, with boysenberry, lavender, hibiscus and a touch of candied cherry. The palate shows both red cherry ripeness and fresh pomegranate tang, with a focus on floral elements of lavender and rose, presented like a bouquet on the tongue.
Glints of spicy, salty soy sauce hover on the nose above a fresh cherry note. The palate is juicy and fluid, mouth filling and round, without being heavy. Cherry notes abound and play, pervaded by freshness and held within a frame of fine, ever so slightly crunchy tannins. The finish is refreshing, bone-dry, clean and moreish.
This opens with earthy violet, underbrush and overripe black-skinned fruit aromas with a whiff of game. The juicy, chewy palate offers baked plum, fleshy black cherry, truffle and licorice flavors, framed by polished tannins. It finishes on a savory note.
The d'Arenberg style favors structure over plushness, even in Grenache. This is crisp and firm, its cranberryish fruit tinged with hints of raspberry, orange zest, cinnamon and clove. Give it a few years to soften. Drink 2020–2030.
Maturity gives a bruised apple aroma to the generous mellowness of ripe pear on the nose. The palate is more taut than the nose leads you to expect, but there is concentration and richness and more bruised apple skin texture. Fruit, evolved flavors and freshness make for an intriguing wine. Drink soon.
A solid Pinot Noir for its price, this offers all the expected flavors and strikes a balance between richness and freshness. Wild cherry, anise, sagebrush and slate aromas lead into a palate that packs ripe red fruit upfront, followed by tangy elderberry, plum skin, hibiscus and rose. A touch of elderflower adds depth.
This grand estate situated in the southern Médoc has been revitalized in recent years and now makes some impressive wines. This rich wine is concentrated with a dark texture that will allow it to age well. There is a juicy aftertaste showing the ripe fruit. Drink from 2021.
Low yields and a high proportion of Cabernet Sauvignon have produced an impressive, dense and structured wine. With a smoky backdrop from the wood aging, it has rich black-plum fruit and a serious concentration. It is going to age well, and will be ready to drink only from 2020.
This is a fine wood-aged blend of 57% Cabernet Sauvignon with Merlot and Petit Verdot. It is darkly colored, dense and with great ripe tannins. One of several Bordeaux properties owned by the Thiénot family, this estate occupies a fine, gravel outcrop in the Pessac-Léognan region, just south of Bordeaux. Drink from 2024.
Ripe and fruity with smooth tannins and generous fruits, this is a concentrated wine that is also stylish. It has plenty of tannins that are so well integrated. The wine is going to be delicious with its acidity and juicy jammy fruit. Drink from 2020.
This is the second wine of Larrivet Haut-Brion. It is rich with tannins and juicy with black-currant acidity. As befits a second wine, it is developing well and easily. Drink from 2021. While it shares the same name as Château Haut-Brion, there is no ownership or location connection between the two properties.
This is Cape Mentelle's biggest selling wine in the U.S., and one taste makes it clear why. It's got some of the herbal and passion fruit notes of Sauvignon Blanc, balanced by the strong citrus of Semillon. It's clean, crisp and long on the finish, with a lightly silky texture that lingers. Drink now.
A light-bodied take on the variety, this wine imparts shocks of sage, lavender and mint aromas over a landscape of black and white pepper and dried herb flavors.
This isn't Coonawarra's most elegant wine, but it certainly doesn't lack for character or concentration. Menthol, vanilla, cedar and cassis deliver plenty of flavor in this chunky, full-bodied Cabernet. Charred, mocha-like notes emerge on the long, intense finish. Drink now–2025.
This is a steal of a wine, tart and satisfying in its crispness of pine needle, cranberry and pomegranate flavors, and well-crafted in every way. Texturally integrated, it offers approachability within a complex, layered package, lingering on the finish with a tease of cola.
This wine is big and bold, but its opulent, generous fruit flavors perfectly fill out its frame, giving it the balance it needs for enjoyment. Ripe blackberry and black cherry notes mark the palate, unfettered by oak-inflected flavor. The texture is firm with lots of fine-grained tannins, while the fruit lingers nicely on the finish.
A note of reduction still clings to the nose. The palate, however, expresses lemony freshness and sprightly fruit, coated with a darker earthier aspect. The body is dry and concentrated and shows lovely easy freshness. On the finish the lemon wins out and finishes with clean-cut freshness.
There's a beechwood smoke touch to the nose of this bottling, accenting a core of dried purple flowers and black raspberry. It's well integrated on the palate, where smoke and dark, tangy fruit mix with white pepper and an acidity that carries its flavors into the finish.
While light-bodied, gentle and intricate, this wine offers plenty of flavor nuances. Cranberry and herb tea aromas mark the nose, while the mouthfeel is at once soothing and tangy, with mulled cherry and clove aromas that slowly emerge and persist on the finish. It's a treat to sip and savor.
This captures all the ripe fruit and fresh mouthfeel you could ask for in a young Riesling. Succulent and peachy, with references to other mixed tree fruits, this also brings highlights of orange pekoe tea. Residual sugar is 20 g/L.
This is quite pretty, with a soft initial entry into strawberry fruit. There's a touch of resin, a whisper of chocolate, and overall a delicate sensibility, that gains strength and length with ample aeration. It exits smoothly with a finishing lick of caramel.
Production is only about one-tenth as much as the Willamette Valley cuvée. For a couple bucks more you get a tight, less opulently fruity wine, with compact skin flavors over-riding fruit flesh. Hints of apple, pear and peach accompany a streak of minerality, and the persistence suggests that this will age nicely. Drink 2020 through 2026.
Tightly structured in a ripe, bold bundle of cherry and berry flavors, this is an intensely tannic and youthful wine, clearly indicative of the vintage. Sage, dried herb, marshmallow and toasted oak aromas round it out, giving it flavor beyond its innate concentration.
Planted in 1983, this is the original Willamette Valley Vineyards estate vineyard. The wine remains stiff and wrapped up tight, with a mix of wild strawberry, raspberry and cherry fruit. There's a light dusting of baking spices, the result of aging 14 months in one-quarter new French oak.
Although sourced from the warm northern end of Barossa, the intention is to make a less bombastic expression of Shiraz, with only 14% new French oak. Mulberry fruit still comes through, accented by hints of coffee, mint and dark chocolate, without too much extraction or tannin. Drink now–2025.
Yarra Valley isn't really where you'd expect to find Marsanne, so this entirely barrel-fermented example is a treat. Only 10% new oak is used, just enough to lend a subtle note of toasted hazelnuts to the fruit, imparting silky texture and added complexity to the white peach, fig and melon flavors on the medium-bodied palate. Finishes long and citrusy.
Rose petal, red cherry and wild thyme scents show in this twist-top bottling from Kiler Canyon and Peachy Canyon vineyards, which is enhanced with 10% each of Mourvèdre and Counoise. Red spice and red berry flavors show on the palate, where zesty acidity cuts through chalky tannins.
About as pale in color as they come, this wine is not light on flavor. It has bright citrus and dried herb aromas and similarly assertive flavors, backed by crisp acidity. It should pair perfectly with seafood and is bold enough for grilled garlic prawns.
This unoaked Chardonnay is powered by tangy lemon and pineapple flavors. It's medium-bodied and has nice concentration without seeming overly ripe. Butter and vanilla touches weave through its lively fresh fruit notes.
Pioneer Josh Jensen still makes his pinks—like this San Benito County bottling—in the vin gris style. It offers light cranberry aromas, tangy, bouyant acidity, and earthy complexity, enwrapping its pink fruit flavors with mushroom-like depth.
Delicate yellow wildflower and yellow stone fruit scents combine. The palate is bright and tangy, with ripe peach and citrus flavors that taper into a delicate hint of almond on the finish.
Mellow and reserved at first, this clonal study shows wet river stone and key lime scents on the nose. The palate leads with slightly sour lemon and orange rind flavors, opening into a sweeter honeysuckle tone and finishing on ripe peach, melon and toasted nut.
Slightly pressed tones of apple and pear are accented elegantly by vanilla and caramel in this big-bodied but elegant wine. Brisk acidity lends a spry tone to the midpalate, drawing out a lemony-fresh finish.
This Riesling's bold blossomy perfume accents honey and apple flavors on the palate. It's not deeply concentrated but its delicate sweetness and fresh cutting acidity are invigorating.
This shows a slight, volatile lift on the nose. That headiness is also present on the palate, which is slender, with a refreshing core of lime and lemon mflavors. It finishes clean.
The wine is crisp, bright with acidity and red-currant fruits. It has weight while also having an intensely crisp texture. Its aftertaste and rich texture are lifted at the end by a shot of citrus. The wine comes from the estate of a 19th-century family-owned chateau.
Following the latest Provence fashion in having a glass-stoppered bottle, this wine is the top of the range for this producer. It is soft and ripe to start but deliciously balanced and crisp at the end. Named after Madeleine or Mado, an imaginary Provencal lady, the wine is ready to drink.
This single-vineyard cuvée is built upon own-rooted Pommard clone fruit, from vines that were planted in 1990. Scents and flavors of beet root, stem and herb poke through tart raspberry and pomegranate fruit. The mouthfeel is a bit stiff and tannic.
This wine's nose suggests fresh lemon. The palate adds green pear to that citrus notion, providing a light, zippy, easy-drinking body with a clean, dry finish.
Pleasing aromas of herb, cherry, vanilla, and cocoa are followed by soft subtle cherry flavors. Lightly grainy tannins provide support. It doesn't seem entirely varietal but still provides enjoyment.
Blended with 5% Sémillon, this crisp, tropical white is generous with bright acidity and a strong taste of pineapple and lemon. Zippy minerality adds a stoniness to the texture and flavor, as a fresh-cut grass note lingers in the background.
Smooth, velvety texture makes for a pleasant mouthfeel in this rich, robust wine. Gamy and bright with acidity, it boasts plum, raspberry and strawberry flavors that contribute to its overall high-toned character, as a whisper of black coffee accompanies the finish.
Consistently among the best $20-and-under wines each vintage, this blend of 52% Grenache, 44% Syrah and 4% Tempranillo from vintner Dan Lee delivers plump boysenberry, plum, baking spice and rosemary scents on the nose. The palate is dry and herbal yet bright with acidity, full of thyme and sagebrush notes against a backdrop of plum fruit.
Light lemony aromas are more blowsy than exact. This feels citric and grabby, with oily weight to the palate. Flavors of ripe white grapefruit, nectarine and orange expand but don't evolve on the finish.
Dark pink-orange in color, this pungent 100% varietal wine was given no time in oak, allowing its crisp orange peel, grapefruit and cherry flavors to shine. Moderate acidity underlies the simple finish.
Textbook amontillado aromas of butter, peanut, caramel and brine precede a fresh high-energy palate that's fueled by acidity. Nutty flavors of toffee include plenty of salt and some smoke, while this finishes long and slightly fiery.
Heady tropical notes of guava and melon perfume this light-footed wine. Semidry in style, it's not deeply penetrating in fruit but offers refreshing citrus flavors and a lip-smacking honey finish. Drink now through 2019.
Aromas of lemon curd and citrus blossom come with a hint of pine. This feels lemony and narrow, with a tight body that's showing little to no give. Nectarine, citrus and green-melon flavors are fresh prior to a dry citrusy finish.
Old Zinfandel plant material from Santa Cruz was propagated in one of the most inhospitable sites for grapes on Catalina Island to make this wine—a fascinating story for any history lover. The wine itself is somewhat simple, with generic red fruit, turned loam and black pepper scents, followed by cranberry, white pepper and crushed rock flavors on the palate.
Made entirely from Garganega, this offers delicate wildflower and white stone fruit scents. On the vibrant palate, a white almond hint underscores yellow apple, Bartlett pear and nectarine flavors.
Sagebrush and faint anise hints decorate the red cherry and ripe raspberry fruit in this appellation blend. The palate is lively if fairly simple, with fresh red berry flavors and a touch of garrigue.
Gritty herbal aromas of olive, asphalt and compost announce a cool-vintage wine. This feels raw and massively tannic. Roasted barely ripe plum and berry flavors finish bone dry and pulling.
High toned, with deep cherry, strawberry and vanilla notes, this wine is velvety and dense, with powerful tannins and a breadth of earthy flavor.
This dry light-footed blend of Chardonnay, Pinot Blanc and Pinot Gris offers zesty grapefruit and lemon flavors edged with white tea leaves. Balanced in alcohol, subtle and refreshing, it finishes on a clean, slightly mineral tone.
Woody aromas are obvious but not overdone as they dominate apple and banana notes. This Chardonnay is narrow and grabby in feel, with salty orange and popcorn flavors. As modest fruit flavors fade on the finish, oak resin takes over.
This light-footed Riesling is restrained in fruit, offering subtle hints of lemon and pear, but its slightly chalky, dusty mineral tone is exhilarating. Its delicately semisweet, with a fresh tangerine finish.
Blackberry and cassis aromas lead to crushed tomato tones. The palate is lazy and without structure, while leafy flavors of wild berry and tomato leaf finish short, herbal and green.
Modest citrus, earth and almond notes come up from the glass, and continue in the flavors of this smooth, rounded, and straightforward wine. The balance is on the soft side, and the body is quite light.
Quite floral smelling and fruity tasting, this is not your usual Chardonnay. It smells like rose petals, tastes like Anjou pears and has a soft mouthfeel and medium body.
Fruit salad aromas, simple apple and pear flavors and a soft texture add up to a pleasant wine. Light bodied, and balanced away from crispness, it is still enjoyable and refreshing.
Zesty and tongue prickling, this is fresh, fruity and ready to drink. It has a sugar sweety character which is tempered by acidity and a touch of red currant.
Thick and sour, this wine has a waxy fruit component to it that is off-putting and out of sync with the crisp fruit that is trying to compete on the palate.
Green pears, hints of cut grass and a lemongrass element make for a bright nose on this wine. Apple cider flavors are cut by a steely minerality on the palate.
Chunky apple aromas turn more heavy and gaseous as this sits. On the palate, this feels pulpy and chunky. Flavors of generic citrus fruits and peach are briny and lightly bitter, while iodine, nut skin and citrus pith flavors drive the finish.
There's a bland greenness to this wine that delves into waxy blackberry and plum, but ultimately remains flat on the palate.
Rusty and light in color, with a dilute, stalky set of aromas, this thin Pinot is dry, a touch bitter and largely fruitless on the flavor profile. A bland, lightly woody finish tastes stalky and not fully ripe.
Barnyard aromas with coffee grinds and lemony blackberry are less than inviting. This feels raw, scratchy and abrasive; flavors of herbal cherry and plum turn green and weedy on the finish.
This is a very watery, almost scentless wine, with hints of golden apples on the nose. The palate is also lacking, showing slight pears and nectarines. The DIY label is a cute gimmick though.
Wheaty and waxy on the nose, this Viura also smells of vinyl and corn. A limited palate is directed by pointed acidity, while flavors of almond skins and pithy citrus are somewhat bitter and finish with zero character.
Mild citrus and grassy aromas are quiet, while this feels pithy and flat for a young wine. Tangerine and persimmon flavors are not on the money for Sauvignon Blanc, with a mildly bitter and pyrazinic finish.
Cheesy, oaky aromas are staunch and less than appealing. A choppy, astringent palate and mulchy, briny berry flavors are less than helpful, while a rubbery feeling finish also fails to bring this around.
This Riesling smells slightly tropical but more like grass and asparagus. A linear body is propped up by lemony acidity, while flavors of lemon peel, tangerine and lees finish citric. Overall, this smells and tastes nothing like the Riesling most people know.
Seltzer and sauerkraut are off putting on the nose. It's scattered and salty tasting, with citrus and celery notes.
Aromas of rubber and floor wax lack fruit and nuance. This has a high-acid, granular mouthfeel that lacks full cohesion. Waxy, salty flavors crowd out primary fruit flavors, while this finishes briny, high in acid and salty.
Blue-fruit aromas and flavors are indistinct on the nose. Massive tannins, lemony oak, plastic and graphite notes drive the palate. The finish is a forced marriage of licorice, oak, and vanilla.
Aromas of peach pit, dried almond skins and white pineapple are on the raw side, while the palate on this Viognier-heavy blend is waxy yet citric. Flavors of white grapefruit and lemon are pithy, and finish with bitter almond flavors.
Chunky aromas of hay and mealy stone fruits are acceptable. This Sauvignon Blanc has a melony, creamy palate and mealy flavors of melon and papaya that match the bouquet. A yeasty, undefined finish indicates this is past its prime.
The aromas are driven by freshly cut wood tones, while the palate is full, creamy and oaky. Raw wood and resin flavors are like licking a plank, and the only flavors in this wine besides oak are lanolin and cinnamon.
This is an unusual mix of disparate flavors—some spice, some mint, eucalyptus, lemon, pineapple—all with a rather bitter edge. It falls apart on the finish, with a chemical, paint thinner aftertaste.
Dark and ominous in color, with a grapy, rustic, smoky nose, this Garnacha is high in acid, rubbery and tannic on the palate. Semisour black-plum flavors finish equally tannic and acidic.
Sturdy and basic, this Pinot Noir has vegetal aromas, modest fruit flavors, and a dry, lean texture. Aromas suggest tomato and herbs, while flavors are more rich.
This medium-bodied wine has very subtle aromas and flavors, a fairly smooth texture, and an ever-so-slightly buttery accent. It offers a slim personality to enjoy.
Earthy, vegetal aromas and equally earthy, peppery flavors make this wine unusually rustic. It does have traces of good aged character, like leather and tea.
Cherry and red-plum aromas are also horsey, jammy and suggestive of bacon fat. An astringent palate ranks as severely rugged and drawing. Bitter red-plum flavors simmer prior to a hard-tannin finish that's peppery and tart.
This rosé is made from Cabernet Franc grapes, and it's briny to an extreme, with vegetal aromas. The palate is scattered in feel and lacks grace, while pickled citrus dominates the flavor profile. A mustardy, briny finish with jalapeño notes is no savior.
The nose on this wine is a bit flat, showing hints of cherry, cola and iron. The palate is not varietally typical, with tarry and sour red fruits, and quite a bit of textural grip.
An oak-fermented blend of 90% Grenache Blanc and 10% Viognier, this is a full-bodied, richly textured wine for drinking over the near term. Nutty scents and flavors accent grilled peach and pineapple fruit, ending in a long, mouthwatering finish.
A blend of wines from different Premier Cru vineyards, this is firm, as befits a Pommard, but has such great ripe fruit that it feels almost opulent. Lovely rich raspberry fruits are touched wit red currants and supported by solid tannins  at the end. Drink from 2017.
This ripe-feeling wine is packed with yellow fruits that give a rounded texture. The rich fruits are also cut with acidity that has a steely, crisp edge, and a chalky texture. It's a wine to age, so drink from 2017.
Round and full-bodied, the wine is dominated by wood-aging flavors. That masks the fruit at this stage, leaving the impression of a wine that is still to focus and bring out the impressive ripe fruits and mineral structure. Give it until 2017 to pull itself together.
Côte Bonneville releases this Cabernet Sauvignon-Merlot blend quite late, so it's well into the maturing process. Pretty aromas of smoke, tea and mint accompany secondary fruit flavors. The vintage produced well-balanced wines, but many have slipped into a bit of a dumb phase at the moment, so try in 2015.
This single-vineyard selection is full-bodied and exuberantly rich. It captures the power of Klipsun/Red Mountain fruit, with a lush array of candied orange, citrus and papaya.  There's a touch of sugar, excellent length and a lingering hint of honeycomb.
A blend of Nerello Mascalese and Nerello Cappuccio, this wine opens with aromas of red berry, turned soil and baking spice. The structured, elegant palate offers nervous acidity and flavors of Morello cherry and ripe strawberry, accented by Mediterranean herbs and spice. Drink 2015–2025.
Glazed apple and pineapple sorbet frame the nose on this offering from Central Coast veteran Stephen Ross Dooley, who makes his wine in one of San Luis Obispo's only urban wineries. The wine is very full and soft on the palate, with round, traditional Chardonnay flavors and a satisfying balance between ripe, rich fruit and lingering acidity. The finishing flavors feel more oak-derived than acidity-fueled.
A nose of baked apple and saline minerality introduce this wine from this single-vineyard superstar winery. The palate picks up with zing, offering apple candy, lemon lime soda and a bit of bitter tension as well. The wine evolves steadily while on the tongue and is never boring.
Testarossa's single-vineyard expertise shines on this wine from Rosella's, which is fresh and alive on the nose with ripe nectarine and grapefruit peel. The acidity carries prominently on the palate, but the ruby-red grapefruit elements are not sharp, possessing both sweet and savory sides and finishing with some bitterness. Serve with honey-glazed seared scallops.
If this wine is any indication, now is the time to jump into the 2009s from the Santa Lucia Highlands. There is verve on the nose, with a heady mix of cola, violet, sassafras and earthy funk. Then the palate delivers suave vanilla and blackberry brûlée flavors. Tannins are perfectly integrated, and it's ready to rock.
Inviting aromas of balsam wood, pipe tobacco and black fruits are lusty and deep. This is big and drawing on the palate, with ribald flavors of blackberry, licorice, chocolate and mocha. A rich, chocolaty, oaky finish with controlled acidic kick and tannic bite confirm the wine's power and spirit. Drink through 2020.
Creamy wild cherry, crushed strawberry, exotic incense, clove and cinnamon-spice spill from the glass when you pour this delicious wine made on the slopes of Mount Etna. It's very youthful, with fresh red-berry fruit and bright acidity balanced by polished tannins. A licorice notes signals the close.
With brooding aromas ranging from wild crushed berries to clove to wet clay, the palate features layers upon layers of flavor, and the wine coats the mouth like silk. Cherries, cola and other savory elements come with a slight tannic grip that ensures a few more years to enjoy this wine.
Ferguson is L'Ecole's newest estate vineyard, and this Bordeaux-style blend marks its single-vineyard debut. It's 57% Cabernet Sauvignon, 32% Merlot and 11% Cabernet Franc, grown at 1,500 feet in almost pure basalt. The minerality is a signature trait, along with raspberry, cassis and wild cherry fruit flavors. This seems sure to improve by 2020–2022.
Intense but classy aromas of berry fruits, minerality, vanilla and chocolate are milder and richer than the wine's racy, structured, acid-rich palate. Flavors of blackberry come with a shock of bracing tartness, while oaky aftershocks offer up chocolate and woodspice flavors. A zesty, firm, hard-driving finish brings a touch of sharpness. Drink through 2022.
Not overly full-bodied, not overly ripe, not overly wild, but just right for dinner time. It's well balanced, velvet textured and multilayered. Brambly, bright raspberry and blackberry flavors fill the mouth, supported by smooth tannins and good acidity that keep it lively and appetizing through the long finish.
A full-bodied, bold and rich wine that has ripe red-fruit flavors and a rounded texture that is given backbone by tannins. It is solid, while also offering freshness and acidity. It's an impressive wine that needs to age. Drink from 2017.
Not to be confused with wines from the vineyard of the same name in neighboring Pernand-Verglesses, this balanced wine shows ripe tropical fruits as well as toasted wood flavors. It is structured and still developing its rich potential. Drink from 2017.
From slopes above the village of Gevrey-Chambertin, this densely tannic wine has a powerful structure that brings out the wood and adds licorice flavors to the bitter cherry fruits. At the end, the year's signature freshness shows more strongly.
This bottling slips in many corners of the flavor experience at once. On the nose, a bit of tropical fruit mixes with evenly spread buttercream, followed by precursor hints of bright acidity on the palate. That citrus-led vibrancy does come, as does a mix of creaminess and limestone-inflected tang, as if the rocks themselves delivered the acidity.
Chalk, apricot honey and wisps of gasoline lead the aroma profile on this wine from electronic music DJ David deLaski and his wife, Anna. The couple have been making wine since 2012 with the help of Steve Clifton (of Brewer-Clifton & Palmina wines). On the palate, there is strong mandarin orange-driven acidity and remnants of the chalkiness, which together should give the wine aging potential. Drink today or buy a case and try every year to track what will be an insightful evolution.
Made from a blend of Nero d'Avola, Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, the 35th anniversary edition of this iconic wine opens with aromas of earth, leather, black currant and bell pepper. Black cherry, chocolate, cocoa and black pepper all weave together seamlessly on the elegant palate, alongside silky tannins.
Sourced from a half dozen vineyards, it includes small amounts of Merlot and Cab Franc. Balanced and complete, it conveys blackberry, coffee and a smooth, vivid streak of caramel, with silky, delicious tannins.
Rich and aromatic, this black label reserve displays excellent power and concentration. A dense core of cassis, licorice and espresso is brightened with vivid acidity, slowing fading through a long, smoky finish. Wait until 2016 for optimum enjoyment.
Black plum, berry, violet petal and ultimately raisiny ripeness define the nose on this dark and lusty Priorato. A ripe, saturated, muscular palate is home to blackberry, baked plum and spice flavors, while burnt brown sugar, pepper and herbal flavors dance comfortably on a deep, lengthy finish. Drink through 2018.
Made from a blend of Nero d'Avola and Frappato, this gorgeous wine offers intense fragrances of blue flower, forest floor, pine sap and woodland berry. The smooth, juicy palate delivers concentrated raspberry and black cherry flavors, with hints of licorice and Mediterranean herbs.
One of the “12 Zins of Lodi 2014,” it was chosen in a judging by the Lodi Winegrape Commission to represent the region's finest. The deep red-black color is saturated to the rim. Deep, evocative aromas lead to ripe cherry, boysenberry, chocolate and nutmeg flavors that echo on the finish. The texture is full and smooth.
Funky earth tones of forest floor, brown button mushrooms and aged beef rise as leading scents in this Rhône-style blend. The nicely rounded, velvety palate, which emerges steadily over the course of a sip, offers plum flavors and soft but present tannins, representing a wine that could last a few more years.
From 70-year-old vines, with a low yield of tiny berries, this is a very textured, concentrated wine with a tight and mineral character. Melon and pear are shot through with intense citrus and wood flavors. It's a wine with structure, needing to age. Drink from 2017.
Produced by a member of the Reverdy family, a big name in Sancerre, this is a fresh and crisply citric wine. Full of apple and tangy orange flavors, it is ready to drink.
This is a fresh, herbaceous wine, with green fruits, citrus and tangy, zesty acidity. A young, juicy character contrasts with a more textured aftertaste. Drink now.
From the producer's Yountville vineyard, as well as sites in Rutherford and Calistoga, this Cab-based blend is grippy and herbal, rustic in baked bread, cassis and cedar. Full bodied, it finishes in thick, leathery tannin.
Intense ripeness opens this wine, followed by a rustic note of leather and horsehide. Puckering tannins show off the oak before a glimpse of blackberry and black currant fight for existence.
Aromas of wet rock, chewing gum and mild citrus fruits are straight down the middle. This feels modest, while cottony flavors of citrus and watermelon finish short and easy.
This wine has ripeness and a kind of sweetness in the aroma. Good fresh cherry flavors glide along nicely on the smooth texture. It is medium bodied and balanced for easy enjoyment.
All tangy fruit, this wine was fermented in stainless steel to keep the freshness of the fruit. It is crisp and lively, full of apple and pink-grapefruit flavors with a clean, bright aftertaste. Drink from mid-2016.
A fresh, pale rosé from Pinot Noir, this has acidity coming from the red-currant fruits and crisp raspberries. With its light texture and total fruitiness, it's a wine to drink now.
Flowers, tangerine peel, peach and herb aromas are followed by medium-sweet blood orange flavors. It provides interest but the concentration doesn't seem all there.
Reduced aromas provide significant distraction at the outset, with floral and tropical notes fighting to get to the surface. The palate doesn't entirely stay together, as if the wine can't make up its mind which way it wants to go. White grapefruit flavors come through on the finish.
Tannic and earthy, this is defined principally by flavors of stem and bark, with thin red fruits in the background. It might best accompany a rich, oily fish such as salmon.
This three-grape blend includes Sauvignon Blanc, Verdejo and Merseguera. It's gold in color, while heavy and cidery on the nose. A chunky, citrusy palate is globular and tastes of grapefruit, tangerine and salt, while an oily feeling, round finish lacks complexity.
This easygoing red offers aromas of ripe raspberry, coffee and a whiff of herb. The simple, rather diluted palate offers wild cherry and a hint of clove alongside fleeting tannins.
This is an herbal, cool wine. Concentrated citrus flavors percolate through the wine to give freshness and bright acidity. It's light, very crisp and ready to drink.
A caramel aroma sets the scene for a ripe, smooth wine. It has ripe red fruits that have a nutty, toasty character that balances with the crisp acidity and tight texture. Drink now.
This wine is ripe, jammy and full of juicy red fruits supported by tannins. The wine is still young, with its bright fruit very much to the fore. Let it round out before drinking, so wait until 2018.
Based in the Jura, this producer blends grapes from other regions to make this fresh, crisp and apple-flavored wine. It's light, bright and just off dry, with attractive acidity. Like it's rosé partner, it is really for apéritifs.
Plump yellow peach and blossom notes are contrasted by dusty herbal and bramble notes on this slightly savory Pinot Blanc. It's a quiet wine, delicately acidic and featherlight in texture intended for youthful consumption.
The nose on this blend of Grenache, Carignan and other grapes burns and smells of iodine, mushroom, olive and rustic berry fruits. High acidity and an obtuse mouthfeel house salty, briny, minerally plum flavors, while the finish runs low on fruit.
Grapy wild blackberry aromas and then a tough, tannic palate tell you most of what you need to know about this hard-knuckled specimen. Flavors of grape skins, plum and blackened spice finish bitter and peppery.
Stalky berry aromas lack overt ripeness and pop. This feels pushed to the center, with minimal mouthfeel. Stalky, lightly burnt and leathery berry flavors finish hot and dried out.
This wine is dull and diluted in nebulous black fruit and a medium-sized body, with plenty of supportive tannins. The finish is quick.
This wine is lean, with tannins that are not quite ripe. That gives a tight character to this wine that also has acidity and red-currant fruits. Give the wine until mid-2016 for it to soften a little.
This wine is closed, tight and possibly still developing, with some acidity and hints of citrus flavors. There's also a cheesy character that is less attractive.
Light, fruity and fresh, this has crisp acidity within a strongly herbal context. Citrus and sliced apples give the wine its refreshing fruitiness. Drink now.
This blend of Bobal and Garnacha is clean and neutral up front. A healthy feeling palate is highly regular but solid. Standard citrus and currant flavors end with moderate length.
This is a fresh wine with caramel as well as ripe red-berry flavors. With its textured acidity and crisp, clean aftertaste, it's a wine to drink as an apéritif.
A pale rosé from Pinot Noir, this is light and fresh, with an intense acidity that cuts through the fruitiness. It's a fine apéritif style with its crisp texture and lively aftertaste.
Tropical in style and approach, this rich wine dotted in pineapple and papaya drinks bigger than it is, veering into very ripe flavor and texture.
This off-dry wine offers ripe strawberry flavors and refreshing acidity. It's a summer-evening drink, although it would do just as well round the fire
Perfect for meat dishes or grilled lamb chops, this is a lush and soft red wine that offers a cheerful and informal personality. Ripe cherry, prune and light spice make for an easy-drinking proposition.
Firm, closed wine that exhibits a strong tannin character. The wine is powerful and dense, its black plum fruits lying under the dry structure. There is a touch of alcohol burn—a shame in an otherwise well-made wine.
Herbaceous in character, this a crisp, lemon-scented wine, still so young and fresh. With its tangy character, it could well age for several months more.
Rich, wood-aged wine that shows ripe blackberry juice flavors to balance the firm tannins. It has good depth, structure and weight, a ripe and good value Bordeaux.
This wine has shown impressive results for this price category in the past. The 2009 edition, however, shows a mature and savory side with leather, cured meat, tobacco and cola. The mouthfeel is thin and not particularly persistent or intense.
This ambitious winery continues to struggle to find the formula for pricy Chardonnay. They turn now to this new Sonoma County appellation, but the result is still pretty ordinary. The wine is all about buttered toast, popcorn and fruit jam, with a creamy texture that's universally appealing.
Mushroom aromas indicate a wine that is now mature. It's light, textured with hints of green herbs as well as tannins that are now dry. Not for aging, drink now.
A nicely balanced red blend, this is high toned with smooth tannins and dark cherry and plum flavors amid a twist of black licorice. A fine wine for a crowd or easy mid-week drinking.
Surely, not many wine lovers have heard of the Cococciola grape from Central Italy. Here's your chance to taste it. Fresh and fragrant, the wine offers lush aromas of honey, jasmine and exotic fruit.
This is an alcoholic expression of Sangiovese from Romagna in Central Italy with a gritty texture and savory aromas of cured meat, leather and dark fruit. A note of crushed mineral reinforces the wine's overall dryness and austerity.
This bright white wine opens with pretty touches of apricot, melon and citrus all presented with delicately measured intensity. In the mouth, the wine is light and lean.
This single vineyard Carmenere from the Horse Heaven Hills is 100% varietal with notes of freshly cut bell pepper and cherry. It's tart fruit flavors are backed by (quite) dry, grainy tannins.
This is robust and easy for drinking now, especially with barbecue. It's front loaded with black cherry, currant, bacon and sandalwood flavors, wrapped into smooth tannins.
Crisply light and fresh, this is a bright and clean wine. It's just touched by vanilla that goes well with the refreshing acidity. No complexity, just easy drinking. Screwcap.
The soft fruitiness of this blend makes it ideal for sipping now with ham, broiled chicken, or casual picnic fare. It's not a complicated wine to ponder over, but to enjoy for its savory raspberry jam, vanilla and cinnamon flavors.
Sometimes, all you need is an easy Cabernet, and this is one of the more accessible ones out there. For the price, it shows Cabernet-style character and plenty of easy drinkability.
Soft, perfumed wine that has fresh red berry fruits, ripe tannins and a juicy fragrance. This is fruity and ready for drinking in the next 2–3 years. Screwcap.
The nose on this racy SB provides a combo of stalky citrus, minerality and tangerine. The palate feels light, zingy and fairly innocuous, while flavors of green herbs, lime, green apple and lemon finish mild and a bit washed out. This will function best as a well-chilled summer quaffer.
This wine is heavy and full-bodied for Pinot Noir, with soft acids and rich cherry, currant, anise and mocha flavors. Doesn't have the structure for aging, so drink up.
A pretty Syrah from Lazio, this fruit forward wine offers cherry, prune, spice and leather aromas. Dark plum flavors are pushed forward over the palate thanks to the wine's soft consistency.
Here's a great deal for a soft, plush and easy-drinking Italian red that would pair with lasagna or fettuccine with meat ragù. You will detect fresh notes of blackberry and blueberry as well as dried aromas of cassis and candied raspberry.
A heavy gold color announces an oily, floral nose that suggests gardenias. The palate is quite oily in feel and very plump, with decent acidity and unique flavors of persimmon, spice and exotic fruits. This is oily and a bit clunky on the finish. Drink now.
Sobon's dry rosé (made from 96% Grenache grapes and 4% Syrah) is pinkish-red in color, brisk and structured with acidity, and a great, great value to boot. Drink on its own—plenty chilled—or find some fresh seafood and enjoy.
From the up-and-coming Rosso Piceno appellation on the Adriatic coast of Central Italy, this is a thin and informal red wine with fruity tones of strawberry and blueberry in the spotlight. A touch of sweet coffee or mocha appears as a distant accent on the close.
Thin, bright and easy-going, this food friendly Montepulciano offers immediate tones of cherry and blackberry followed by a mild and gentle mouthfeel.
A drop in alcohol by more than a full percent since the excellent 2009 Nysa was released suggests that this vintage did not achieve optimal ripeness. Bitter upon entry, with a medicinal note, this remains stiff and unyielding, with tart cranberry fruit and sharp acids.
This is soft and jammy, with raspberry, cherry and oak flavors. A pretty wine, with a good tannin-acid balance, for drinking now.
Like its stablemates, the Elton bottling has dropped more than a point of alcohol in 2010, and the winery's lineup overall tilts toward the thin and herbal. Here the cranberry fruit shows little charm. There's a spine of iron and a finish amply loaded with flavors of herb and earth.
This could be classified as a red wine—it's as dark as some Pinot Noir. But the winery recommends chilling it, so we'll call it a blush. The blend is not disclosed. The flavors are rich with strawberries, persimmons and limes.
Sweet scents of toasty oak introduce this Syrah-based red wine. Soft and accessible, it has plenty of vanilla and tobacco notes, along with easy-drinking, light plum fruit.
Notes of buttered toast, butterscotch candy and caramel popcorn flavors dominate this wine. Underneath all that is a wine with pineapple, green apple and pear flavors, brightened with crisp acidity.
This overly ripe Malbec is packed with rooty spice, oak and tree bark aromas. The wine feels sticky and soupy, with a resiny texture and salty, oaky flavors of syrupy berries and mint. A sugary, cloying finish is short on freshness.
This has restrained aromas of char, cassis, spice and asparagus. It's light to medium in body, and it bears fine, polished tannins. A note of cherry marks the warm finish.
This is a thin, tart wine, with simple apricot, citrus, honey and peach flavors that finish sour and dry.
This blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot is as sweet as a candy. It has licorice, cherry, sweet cola and persimmon flavors.
Burnt hay, grapefruit and waxy apple aromas lead to a palate with briny citrus flavors. Pithy grapefruit and orange flavors carry the finish, which is quick and light in weight.
There's a hard, metallic flavor and feeling. Under that are good black cherry and cola flavors, touched with sweet, smoky oak. It's okay with basic burgers and barbecue.
Aromatically, this is pretty good as dry apple and a pinch of green herbs work the nose. In the mouth, however, this is shear and citric, with zesty, almost sour flavors of tangerine, orange and grapefruit. The finish is similar, with thinly cut acidity causing tartness.
The nose is yeasty with aromas of apple and hay stalks. This feels lively and citrusy, although the structure and bubble bead are weak. Flavors of briny apple and nectarine finish with a pickled flavor and juicy acidity.
The nose is neutral except for dusty aromas and a hint of applesauce. This feels bold, thick and a bit clumsy, with pithy citrus, nectarine and apricot flavors. These notes continue through the wine's finish. Drink now.
Dry, tannic and simple, with watery black cherry and herb flavors. It's okay for big parties, and the price isn't bad.
Dominated by intensely herbaceous Colombard, this is a light, fresh and aromatic wine. Acidity combines with a fruit drop character that suggests some sweetness in the blend. Screwcap.
Made without oak, this Riesling is slightly sweet with sugary orange and peach flavors. It lacks the acidity to balance the sweetness, which makes the finish cloying.
Soft scents of dryer sheets, lemons, tropical fruits and white flowers mark this Pinot Gris. On entrance, this light-to medium-bodied wine feels loose and flat, but the acidity picks up on the finish to give it a final lift.
This smells a bit cheesy and leesy, with notes of popcorn and baguette that dominate the nose. On the medium-bodied palate, fresh acidity gives lift to the hints of lemon and unbuttered popcorn.
This sparkling wine has a delicate fragrance of spring flowers and flavors of white fruit. Simple but well made and refreshing.
Grassy aromas of green tobacco and alfalfa come in front of a lightly abrasive palate. Herbal red-berry flavors are suggestive of minty cranberry, cherry and raspberry. This turns more fruity and less green on the finish.
Tastes overripe, showing raisin and prune flavors and lots of oak, with awkward tannins. On the plus side, it's dry, and the alcohol is a refreshing 13.6% by volume, giving it an elegant mouthfeel.
Inexpensive, this Zin is quite ripe and quite oaky, a big mouthful of wine ready to enjoy now.
A gold color indicates maturation, while loud, tropical fruit aromas fold in lychee, citrus blossom and sweat. The palate is electric due to citric acidity, while flavors of orange, tangerine, lemon-lime and grapefruit finish with a chalky feel.
Briny raspberry aromas are a bit murky. This smacks down hard with acidity, while the flavors run toward earthy, generic plum and berry. A salty finish with animal notes is firm but struggles with cleanliness.
This Chambourcin has medium-intense aromas of chocolate-covered cherries, dill and caramel popcorn. The medium-bodied palate feels limp due to soft tannins and languid acids.
This is not a successful Sleepy Hollow Vineyard bottling. The cold vintage took its toll, resulting in a wine whose cherry and tart cranberry flavors are cut through with a streak of green veggies. Drink up.
As delicate as water, with faint hints of citrus fruits and buttered toast.
This simple Grenache has cherry pie and sandalwood flavors, cut through with a vegetal unripeness suggesting boiled asparagus. It's soft in texture and high in alcohol.
There's residual sugar in this wine, to judge by the sweet cherry cola flavors with a hit of alcohol.
This is a thin, water wine with delicate grapefruit flavor. The finish is brightened by a burst of citrusy acidity.
There's a strong dose of sawdust and faux vanilla on the nose of this flabby Malbec. Woody, minty flavors crowd out the fruit content, while the finish is resiny in feel, and consistent with the palate.
Thin and watery, with acid-driven grapefruit and sour gooseberry flavors.
Simple red-berry aromas are about as good as this gets. In the mouth, it's wet but dilute. Flavors of pithy citrus and grass finish with grapefruit and bitter flavors. This is basic at best and empty at worst.
Stalky raspberry aromas, a zesty palate and salty red-plum flavors are the bulk of this lightweight specimen. Overall it's fresh and snappy, a bit sour and herbal, and not all that substantive.
Plum and cherry aromas are generic in nature. This feels jammy and candied, while heavy berry fruit and oak flavors combine to keep things basic and muddled.
A deep-purple look and aromas of cherry cough drop and berry jam announce a fruity wine with hard, drilling tannins. Seemingly overextracted, this is a packed, medicinal tasting red with toast and fire on the finish.
This coastal Syrah smells reduced and funky, with notes of juniper, blueberry and green herbs. A jammy, saturated palate is more flat and dull than ideal, while flavors of stewed, herbal blue fruits and carob finish minty and green.
This is a heavy, syrupy Pinot, with caramelized, candied raspberry, cherry and spice flavors.
Chunky and bland on the nose, this is honeyed and sticky in the mouth. Flavors of unctuous tropical fruits finish like candy corn. There's not much spine to this overly ripe Chardonnay.
With refreshingly tart blackberry fruit, this Zweigelt has some concentration and displays a good balance between light body, refreshing acidity and clean, lively fruit notes. A great party wine.
Pale in color, with a soft, silky body and candied strawberry and vanilla flavors, this blend straddles the line between a red wine and a rosé. You can treat it either way, at room temperature or chilled.
A simple wine full of red cherry flavors on the nose and palate, with an enticing white pepper edge that makes it very refreshing. This could be chilled and is an ideal, lighter-style red for informal entertainment.
Aromatically inviting, with notes of fresh apple, honeydew and white blossoms, this Chardonnay is a bit confected on the palate from candied, overripe flavors of apples and quince. It's a shade off-dry in style with soft, lemony acidity.
The blend is Zinfandel, Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon and Petite Sirah. The wine is soft and luscious, with cherry candy and vanilla flavors.
This opens with a blast of bell pepper and leafy berry aromas. The palate is juicy but scratchy, while flavors of plum, raspberry and herbs finish tart, with no evolution.
Chardonnay from a hot valley in a hot vintage equals something like this. Orange peel and oak aromas, a pulpy palate and warm flavors of orange and grapefruit.
Fermented in 100% stainless steel, this priced-to-sell Syrah has some red fruit and violet character. On the finish it tastes slightly burnt.
Neutral aromas of dusty apple and peach are o.k. at best. Like most 2012 white wines from Chile, this seems heat-affected; the body is plump and heavy, while melon and citrus flavors finish soft and mealy.
This is a simple red wine with cherry notes and lively acidity striking a balance between primary freshness and appetizing acidity. Great for any occasion where an approachable red wines needs to complement a range of cuisine styles. The body is soft, easy and calls for early drinking.
There's a prickly, acidic bite to this dry Cab Franc that gives it a sour finish, despite some solid cherry and oak flavors. Drink up.
Gentle red-cherry fruit, soft and pliable tannins and fresh acidity combine to make this a simple and cheerful light red for drinking now.
An aromatic offering with notes of tropical fruit, flowers, petroleum jelly and hazelnut. At 30 g/L residual sugar, it's sweet but could use a bit more acidic lift.
Herbal aromas, a chunky palate and herbal cherry and plum flavors finish earthy and with a raisiny element. This is sort of amorphous and mealy on the palate.
While rather closed on the nose, this fresh, straightforward red shows ripe, red cherry on the palate with a generous, rounded mouthfeel and soft tannins. Uncomplicated and for immediate drinking.
This is a rustic Pinot Noir, soft and candied. It has raspberry, red plum and oak flavors. Finishes with a bit of heat from alcohol.
Made from organically farmed grapes, this 50/50 blend of Montepulciano and Sangiovese opens with funky farmyard aromas and notes of leafy underbrush. The palate oozes dense, overripe black berry and prune. The heavy, extracted palate finishes on a sweet note, but lacks balance and freshness.
This sparkling wine is intense with startling acidity and very crisp citrus palate. Maybe a few months in bottle will soften it.
Simple and soft, this Chard is a juicy, forward blend of pineapple, mango and peach flavors.
This Pinot is marked with candied raspberry and cherry flavors, along with oaky vanilla and toast notes. It finishes rather soft.
Soft, simple and overripe, this non-vintage Rhône-style blend has flavors of candied raspberries, prunes and oak. There's some bitterness that accentuates the tannins on the finish.
Here's a soft, simple Pinot, with one-dimensional raspberry, cherry and oak flavors. It has a jammy, syrupy finish.
Expansive cherry fruit make for a broad palate. A generous body falls in line with fresh acidity and ripeness to result in an easy-drinking party wine.
A bitter wine with tart apple and pear flavors, this has a hard edge. Drink now.
Using fruit sourced from a 20-acre vineyard in Castillon, this is dominated by Merlot, with a touch of perfumed Cabernet Franc. It has an age-worthy structure, showing good balance, firm tannins and ripe fruit.
Full and rich, this has flavors of spice, juicy black currant and mulberry, with a fine tannin backdrop and a dry core. The wood aging has smoothed the fruity finish.
This Nero d'Avola from the Agrigento area of southern Sicily opens with spicy nuances of cumin, clove and nutmeg, followed by plush red-fruit and dusty mineral endnotes. The palate is polished, bright and finely textured.
Valentino is part of a series from Feudi del Pisciotto that contributes funds to charitable causes. This wine opens with jammy aromas of cherry and blackberry, with touches of sour astringency and sweet fruit on the finish.
This Primitivo bears a dark, inky color, with bold aromas of blackberry jam and exotic spice. Oak-driven flavors of tobacco, cinnamon, toasted nut and carpenter's shop are almost too much. However, the wine does end on a sweet, fruity note.
Rich and opulent, this opens with toasted aromas of spice and nut, backed by accents of ripe fruit and blackberry jelly. The mouthfeel is soft, supple and slightly sweet.
A round, robust Barbera from winemaker Greg Graziano, this has detailed layers of blackberry and currant, with soft tannins and a toasty finish. Pair this selection with something savory, like a stew, and anything made with mushrooms and Parmesan.
This is the most complete of the four Prince Hill clonal selection bottlings. It has flavors of cherry, Dr. Pepper, cherry candy and a hint of incense. It's a pleasant, easy-drinking wine best consumed while still young.
A pure expression of Grillo, this offers clean fruit, with pristine aromas of citrus, honey and white peach. The finish is crisp and streamlined.
This is firmly tannic, with dark berry and black cherry fruits. Minerally and textured, it shows the full effect of Beaujolais's granite soil. It also has a rich feel that will evolve over the next several months.
This Pinot Noir is drinkable now for its soft deliciousness. It's pretty oaky, but it offers plenty of raspberry, cherry and spice flavors that are wrapped into a silky texture.
This 75-25 blend of Chardonnay and Grillo (aged only in stainless steel) makes a great companion to fresh seafood dishes. The wine offers loads of citrus and pear notes, with a chalky mineral overtone and bright acidity.
While most production of Buzet is controlled by the local cooperative, a few separate estates exist, such as this chateau. This is an elegant blend of Malbec, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, with a ripe, full, Bordeaux-style feel.
There's a blast of pear and peach at the very start that builds in momentum to include aromas of lemon zest and spice. The wine also boasts a naturally creamy and bold mouthfeel.
This is a full-bodied, rich and fruity wine. It has a smooth texture that's embellished with flavors of apricots and green plums. The finish has a tangy, minerally edge.
This is generous, full of red berry and plum fruits and lined with acidity. It has a firm structure that gives shape to its exuberant fruitiness. Ready to drink now, but it can be aged for another 2–3 years.
This opens with loads of milled black pepper, which makes a strong statement. Behind that spicy tone are notes of black fruit, prune, tobacco and leather. Soft cherry and chocolate accents appear on the finish.
An innovative mix of Nero d'Avola and Pinot Nero, this shows balance and harmony on the palate. In terms of aroma, the Nero d'Avola overpowers the Pinot Nero, however. It's a bright, fruit-driven wine with freshness on the finish.
Sporting a much-improved label design, the 2009 Natasha brings pungent, assertive scents of tomato leaf, pepper and moist earth. Sharp and focused, the fruit is there, though it's the leaf and earth components that stand out. For its earthy style, it's a well-made and complex offering.
This Riserva shines the spotlight on the little-known Gaglioppo grape. The wine opens with aromas of bresaola, spice, leather, dark fruit and rum cake. The fresh, streamlined mouthfeel would appeal to consumers who don't gravitate toward overextracted reds.
A blend of Duras and Braucol, this is initially all structure—firm and tannic. Gradually the red cherry and berry fruits show, giving it a juicy character. Balanced with acidity, this shows the potential to age for a few years.
Fresh and pretty, this has a bright, refreshing palate that offers flavors of cranberry and raspberry. It's smooth and fruit forward, with medium aging potential.
This Pinot saw one-quarter new oak, which contributed an undertone of burnt toast. The spicy berry fruit is accented by a cola note, and the wine has a friendly, mouth-filling roundness. This is perfect for near term drinking.
The light-framed aromas of strawberry and raspberry are clean and citrusy. The palate on this wine made by the Chablis-based producer Laroche is crisp, tangy and juicy, with flavors of raspberry and cranberry that are fresh and tight. A clean, honest Pinot to enjoy now.
One of the entry-level wines from Bründlmayer, this is all about the fruit. It is fresh and perfumed, with just a touch of pepper that adds zestiness. It's a pleasure to drink now, and the creamed pear and citrus flavors are already in harmony.
A blend of Nero d'Avola, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah, this is bright and fresh, with an easy-drinking approach. Cherry, blackberry and spice give it a full and lively personality.
Jammy, floral aromas fold in graphite, blueberry and cassis accents. The palate is tight and firm, with mild astringency due to the strong tannins. It bears flavors of herbal berry, saline and rubbery earth, and the finish includes green herb and salt notes.
This bears a dark color with inky concentration. It presents ripe blackberry and prune aromas, followed by chewy softness and a sweet spice flavor.
Grillo and Viognier are blended to produce a rich and creamy white wine, with a pretty bouquet of white flower, stone fruit and citrus. This would pair beautifully with calamari stuffed with breadcrumbs and pine nuts.
True to the variety, this expression of Cabernet Sauvignon offers rich layers of dark fruit, prune, chocolate, spice and dried rosemary. The palate is tight, structured and fresh.
Ample citrus and nettle notes give this wine an earthy aspect. The light, dry palate shimmers with tart grapefruit and lime notes. The finish is refreshing and fruity.
This wine comes from one of Côtes de Provence historic cru classé estates. It is a ripe and smooth wine with crisp acidity and a fine bite of spice. The wine is packed with red fruits and finished with refreshing acidity.
A touch of strawberry streaks through this wine's lemon scent. The palate is slender, easy and fresh, making for an uncomplicated summer drink with a dry, taut finish.
Plump red cherry and star anise aromas meet sagebrush and rust on the nose of this appellation blend. It's light bodied on the palate, where tangy acidity presents cranberry, mace and dried meat flavors.
Rose petal, red cherry and wild thyme scents show in this twist-top bottling from Kiler Canyon and Peachy Canyon vineyards, which is enhanced with 10% each of Mourvèdre and Counoise. Red spice and red berry flavors show on the palate, where zesty acidity cuts through chalky tannins.
About as pale in color as they come, this wine is not light on flavor. It has bright citrus and dried herb aromas and similarly assertive flavors, backed by crisp acidity. It should pair perfectly with seafood and is bold enough for grilled garlic prawns.
This unoaked Chardonnay is powered by tangy lemon and pineapple flavors. It's medium-bodied and has nice concentration without seeming overly ripe. Butter and vanilla touches weave through its lively fresh fruit notes.
Solid dark-fruit aromas are spicy and a touch minty. Like most Petit Verdot, this is rugged and tannic in feel. Berry and chocolate flavors are basic but ripe and tasty, while this feels a bit bumpy and rough on a chocolaty-tasting finish.
Rich and round, this 100% varietal wine shows generous chocolate brownie aromas, its supple tannins brooding and dense. Clove and cinnamon stick flavors accent its dark black cherry and berry fruit.
This easygoing blend of Nero d'Avola and Merlot has black-skinned fruit, Mediterranean underbrush and blue flower aromas. The juicy palate offers mature blackberry, baking spice and nutmeg flavors, accompanied by round tannins.
Grapy, meaty aromas are loud and all over the map. The palate of this purple Cafayate Malbec is saturated and loaded with pulp, tannins and bulk. Roasted blackberry and cured-meat flavors finish mellow and soft, without much length.
A very pale peach color, this wine brings bright aromas of strawberry Jolly Rancher, cherry and kiwi. It drinks just a hair off dry, with tart fruit flavors, providing plenty of easy-drinking pleasure.
Bordeaux chateau owner Bernard Magrez has moved into Provence with this soft fruity wine. It is well balanced, with red fruits and gentle acidity giving a wine that makes a great apéritif style. Drink now.
Merlot (39%) takes the lead on this blend followed by Cabernet Sauvignon (24%), Malbec (15%), Petit Verdot (10%), Petite Sirah (6%) and Carménère. Scents of barrel spice, dark fruit, vanilla and herb are followed by cranberry and cherry flavors, speckled with barrel spices. Grainy tannins provide support.
This is the entry-level wine from this estate situated in the small area of Coteaux Varois. It is a really fruity blend of Grenache and Cinsault. Bright red fruits and crisp acidity give a dry wine with great fruitiness. Drink now.
A touch of lemon candy brightens this fresh fruity Pinot Gris. It's dry and light bodied in style, offering crisp peach and grapefruit flavors. The finish is pristine but brisk. Drink now through 2019 to enjoy its youthful refreshment.
High-toned aromas of herb, flower, spice and cherry are followed by tart elegantly styled fruit flavors. The new oak influence seems minimal. Pair it with food to see it at its best.
The faintest hint of red berry marks this wine's nose. Its palate, on the other hand, brims with zesty citrus. It's very light but also refreshing and dry, with enlivening spritz and citrus flavors.
Toasted oak, hazelnut and fresh herb aromas carry over to the lean, linear palate, along with lemon drop, yellow apple and a confected notes. Crisp acidity lends a racy elegance.
Electric-pink color and piercing acidity add to the unique personality of this bold angular Cabernet Franc rosé. Tart sour-cherry and raspberry flavors are pristine and primary, but nuanced with lingering hints of bramble and savory herb. This is a refreshingly substantive style of rosé to enjoy with even heartier fare well into the fall months.
Alluring citrus, pear, yellow flower and herb aromas lift out of the glass. They carry over to the tangy palate, joining Golden Delicious apple and saline flavors that lend a savory finish.
This Super Tuscan-style blend named “heart of the vineyard” shows baked black raspberry, black plum, thyme and bay leaf on the nose. It's light in body on the energetic and easygoing palate, with a tangy raspberry snap.
Less exuberant on the nose than its counterparts, this bottling offers dried cherry and licorice aromas. The palate shows tart but dark berry and plum skin flavors, with a graphite minerality that leads into a touch of caramel on the finish.
The aromas are barrel-forward at present, with notes of baking spice and vanilla in front of red fruit. The flavors are plump in feel but also come off as quite woody. There are lots of good things going on. Perhaps some additional time in the bottle will pull them all together.
Blended with 10% Alicante Bouschet and aged for 20 months in French oak, this wine shows bright baked strawberry fruit that becomes brooding in the glass, layered with black licorice and peppered leather. Densely built, it finishes seductively smooth.
The Gasquet-Pascaud family has produced a light wine from its estate above Saint-Tropez. There is a yeasty character that gives it a richer more structured side. That should blow over as the wine ages for a few months just to bring out the fruitiness. Drink from late 2017.
Pale, just pink in color, the wine is refreshingly light and crisp. With its attractive red-currant flavors, the wine is lively, bright and bone dry. Drink now.
From a head-trained, dry-farmed vineyard, this very delicate and rather light bottling shows minerally lava rock and riverstone aromas, tart red-cherry fruit and a touch of chaparral. The palate's light structure offers rust and red cherry flavors.
Raspberry fruit shines through with ample backing acidity. The flavors are true and fresh, though the wine seems to thin out midpalate. It was fermented with wild yeast and aged for 15 months in the barrel.
Doug Margerum delivers his annual crowd-pleaser with this bottling, which evokes ripe apple, sweet stone fruit and grapefruit pith on the nose. Chalky texture and racy acidity mark the palate, providing the perfect framework for sour kumquat flavors and a cement-like minerality.
Simple light aromas of vanilla and lees set up a round palate with ample acidic kick. For the most part, this is chunky and weighty, with apple and peach flavors, while mild bitterness in the form of peach pit closes this out.
This unpretentious, grapy and slightly herbal-tasting dessert wine is sweet but thick in texture and superfruity in flavor.
Flat cherry and clay aromas set up a scratchy, almost citric palate with short but bright plum and raspberry flavors. This is basic Malbec with a tart hollow wiry finish.
Saucy plum and wet-dog aromas improve ever so slightly with airing. This feels creamy and sticky, while basic flavors of cherry and plum finish with herbal hints and sweet notes of vanilla and cream.
This wine has a slightly lighter color than usual, aromas that resemble black plums and red cherries, and similar flavors. It is medium bodied, moderately tannic in texture and a good choice for a large crowd.
Dusty, citrusy aromas of pineapple turn more tropical with airing. This is 60% Garnacha Blanca, 30% Chardonnay and 10% Sauvignon Blanc, and it's a bit flat on the palate. Flavors of white fruits are candied but also bitter, while this finishes with honeyed sweetness offset by pithy bitterness.
The oak is pronounced from the start of this full-bodied, slightly over-the-top white, which comes off as reduced among layers of caramel and almond. A hint of ripe cantaloupe, peach and apricot provides a sense of freshness on the finish.
There are hints of bottle age on this strawberry-flavored wine. They give it a more woody, toasty character that takes away from the freshness that a wine like this needs. The aftertaste conveys caramel and spice.
The wine is all fruitiness, with attractive acidity and almond and lemon flavors. Made to be drunk instantly, it has the lightest texture, white fruit flavors and a fresh, crisp aftertaste.
Tropical fruit and melon aromas are filled out with a touch of toast and acidity. The result is a wine that is not quite balanced, with wood and fruit still at odds. The aftertaste, with a creamy texture, is more attractive. This is one of the first vintages since Labouré-Roi, which was hit by scandal in 2012, passed into new ownership.
Canned pears and plumeria show on the nose of this bargain-priced offering, worthy of a weeknight dinner or later in the evening. The palate shows lots of ripe stone fruit, apple syrup and tangy citrus, the finish delivering a lasting acidity.
The nose of this widely available wine jumps from condensed apples and honey to cut pear on the more broad whiffs. The flavors are light and a tad ripe, with red apples, citrus and orange juice flavors.
This has aromas of overripe black-skinned fruit, scorched earth and a funky whiff of barnyard. The rustic sensation carries over to the palate along with a bitter note. It lacks fruit richness while grainy tannins leave an abrupt, astringent finish. Tried twice and had the same notes.
Almost completely transparent, this wine is lightly fruity and perfectly pleasant; there's just not much to it. Traces of apple, pear and white melon come up, quickly running into a short, thin finish.
This high-octane wine smells like Port, honey and black figs. It tastes very ripe, almost hot, feels quite tannic and heavy, and has a touch of sweetness to redeem it. Enjoy this as an after-dinner drink with chocolate or a cigar.
Radiator dust, lees and vanilla cookie aromas precede a chunky flat palate. Flavors of lime, melon and apple are as basic as it gets, while the finish is bland except for a hint of pithy bitterness.
This is a soft ripe wine that has yellow fruits alongside crisper red apples and touches of grapefruit. That makes for a balanced light wine that has a fine texture and a fresh aftertaste. Drink now.
For the price, this is a remarkable achievement. It's a varietally correct, properly lightweight Pinot Noir imbued with attractive black cherry fruit. There's a charred-stave character that adds vanilla and a tinge of mocha as well. Drink now.
This wine is appealing for its smooth mouth-feel, mildly spicy aromas and dried-fruit flavors. Medium to full bodied, it also tastes mellow and mature, with no rough edges poking out.
The Malbec in the blend adds its tannins to this wine meant to drink young. The spice and wood aging are balanced with acidity and a juicy aftertaste. Drink from late 2016.
Simple, fresh and fruity, this has attractive herbal flavors and crisp citrus. It has a tangy edge that will allow it to age a little longer. Drink now, but better from early 2017.
As with most Del Rio wines, this is 100% varietal. Fruity and forward, it's a bowl full of peaches and apples. Flavors are light and fresh, without much substance. Drink up.
Made from a majority of Cabernet Sauvignon, this bombastic blend also has Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Petite Sirah. A bouquet of cinnamon and clove invites, before intense tar, tobacco and bittersweet tannins make way for super-sized oak and a taste of bacon.
This offers earthy aromas of prune, scorched soil, pressed violet and a whiff of game. On the simple, informal palate, hints of black pepper and coffee add interest to the core of dried black cherry.
A mineral textured wine with stone fruits and attractive fresh acidity, it has a lively citrus character that comes out of the bright citrus and green plum fruits. The wine is ready to drink.
The wine is still young, still shockingly full of acidity and black currant fruits that are backed by tannins. It needs time to calm down, to fill out with richer fruitiness. Drink from 2017.
This wine shows unusual floral, clove and sage aromas. Flavors resembling boysenberry and black pepper come with a medium-full body and firm tannins. It's atypical for the variety but a good red wine.
This wine is soft, creamy and light. Attractive acidity along with a fresh apple character gives a fresh aftertaste. Drink now. This is one of the first vintages since Labouré-Roi, which was hit by scandal in 2012, passed into new ownership.
Light cherry and raspberry aromas come in front of a grabby rubbery palate. This tastes like salty plum, with little variation of that theme. A solid finish tastes exactly like what came before.
Aromas like brown sugar and bourbon meet bold oaky, spicy flavors in this medium-bodied wine. This will be good for fans of those exotic oak flavors.
Meaty and brooding, this is a taut, focused and dusty wine made from organically and biodynamically grown grapes. Tart cranberry notes give it a sharpness that accentuates the deeper, richer layers of black fruit.
A bright purple tint announces a jumpy youthful-smelling wine with plum, black currant and oak aromas. This is Carignan, Syrah, Garnacha and Cab Sauvignon, and it's full in body but also juicy and lively. Savory, saucy plum and berry flavors ride a wave of crisp acidity, while the finish feels dry and exact, with minty medicinal overtones. Drink this snappy wine through 2021.
The Hilltops is a high-altitude (approximately 450 meters above sea level), continental region that's often a good source for value. This wine is crisp, youthful and firm, with hints of baking spices and vanilla accenting pure cassis fruit. Drink 2020–2030.
The subtle nose of this all-Sangiovese wine suggests ripe black-skinned fruit, pressed violets and dark spices. The linear palate offers dried black cherry, licorice, clove and chopped herb flavors, pulled taut by firm, fine-grained tannins that lead to a coffee-inflected finish.
Melony floral aromas are friendly and easygoing. On the palate, this is clean and precise, with moderate weight and a touch of oak. Lime and kiwi flavors are a bit sweet, with a welcome oaky offset. On the finish, this Godello fades nicely, with core acidity extending the ride.
A block-designated, 100% whole cluster-fermented wine, this shows a slightly carbonic mouthfeel and vibrant acidity. The flavors lean toward wild strawberry, pomegranate and cranberry, with a depth of forest compost lurking underneath.
Minerality is the focus on the nose of this bottling, with slate and earthy clay notes bolstering plum skin and cinnamon stick aromas. Graphite-like character enwraps the palate, where wet earth flavors meet with black raspberry and garrigue.
This estate-grown, pure varietal effort is exceptionally rich and succulent. The flavors of sugared grapefruit, lemon pulp and rind and sweet tea are concentrated and lingering. Despite the impression of sweetness, it's not a dessert wine, just an especially ripe and rich one.
Classic flavors of pear flesh, along with a touch of Poire William liqueur, are the highlights here. It's a stylish, clean and persistent wine, that should be enjoyed within a couple of years of the vintage.
Tart cherry, baking spice and dried chaparral show on the nose of this appellation blend from pioneering vintner Richard Sanford and Nick de Luca, making for a soft and easy entry. It's light and refreshing on the palate, with a bit of tannic depth, offering dried cranberry, juniper and garrigue-inflected flavors. Lively and vibrant with herbal depth.
Full of berry and spice aromas, this wine is full-bodied, dry, and grippingly tannic in texture, offering ripe blackberry and raspberry flavors that match its big structure. Gutsy and concentrated, it's made from estate-grown fruit.
From a tiny coastal vineyard, this wine appears light-bodied and delicate at first, building its power slowly in the glass. Sous bois, earthy spice and savory tea give it an edginess unfettered by fruit, while a healthy tannic structure keeps it grounded.
This juicy all-Merlot bottling boasts blackberry and green peppercorn aromas. The firm palate doles out black currant, tobacco, clove and licorice flavors, framed by crunchy tannins. Enjoy through 2020.
A limited-production wine made to commemorate the Supreme Court ruling on marriage equality, this full-bodied vineyard-designated wine is softly layered in bold, rich huckleberry pie and strawberry flavors. Juicy on the palate, the fruit is seasoned with clove, cola and a hint of earth.
Complex aromatics link notes of pine needle, chocolate cherry bark and pepper. In the mouth it's smooth and supple, graceful and polished. It finishes slightly chalky and citrusy. Drink up by 2020.
Deep color, bold fruit aromas and substantial, spicy flavors lend significant power and concentration to this full-bodied wine. It's nearly dry, well structured and balanced, with appealing blackberry, nutmeg and cinnamon flavors.
Classic Hunter Valley Sem, if maybe just a little fruit-forward. Like tasting light-bodied lime juice that finishes fresh and clean. Drink it now with oysters, or put some aside for up to 10 years for it to develop toast, honey and marmalade aged characters.
Leather, underbrush, grilled herb and charred earth aromas take center stage, accented by a balsamic note. The structured, medium-bodied palate offers juicy black cherry, coffee, licorice and rosemary flavors, framed by firm, fine-grained tannins. Drink or hold a few more years.
This blend of seven clones, all estate grown, comes together with well-integrated berry and cherry fruit. There's a pleasantly dusty note, a touch of brown spices, and just a hint of heat in the finish.
Cured meat, grilled herb, toast and raisin aromas lead the nose of this lean, savory red. The palate evokes sour cherry, cranberry, grilled rosemary, black tea and pipe tobacco, set against firm, close-grained tannins. Give this a few more years to come together. Drink 2019–2027.
Very ripe fruit is discernible on nose and palate and gives a sense of generosity with even a touch of spice. Lemony freshness provides a wonderful counterpoint to this generosity and makes for a very appetizing moreish finish.
Dry, lively and fresh, this wine has an attractively restrained range of flavors that includes lemon, white pepper and herbs. It's thirst-quenching and clean in texture, with a fruit-driven acidity that reverberates on the finish.
Dark-skinned berry, underbrush and leather are some of the aromas you'll find in this juicy Brunello. The palate doles out fleshy black cherry, raspberry jam and clove flavors held together by fine-grained tannins and fresh acidity. Enjoy 2018–2023.
Winemaker Jonathan Nagy's new program includes sourcing from iconic sites around Santa Barbara County, like this vineyard high above the Santa Ynez River. The wine's deep mulberry aromas meet with hickory smoke and miso-like umami notes on the nose. Cranberry fruit shows on the palate, with nori and roasted pork accents.
Forest floor, leather, pressed violet and balsamic notes meld together in the glass. The palate is firm and linear, offering dried cherry, tart cranberry, crushed herb and licorice notes, set against youthfully assertive, fine-grained tannins. Drink 2019–2025.
Crisp and robust in pine-forest aromas, ripe cranberry and savory black tea, this coastal wine is feral yet velvety in texture. Concentrated and full bodied, it has underbelly that's undeniably mineral.
This full-bodied and complex wine has loads of personality. An exotic, slightly earthy aroma leads to fruity richness and good viscosity on the palate, with a creamy texture and wonderful sense of layering.
From the famous Westside Road-adjacent vineyard, this Chardonnay shows a proclivity toward lush roundness of texture and tropical flourish in flavor. Vanilla nuttiness is complemented by pineapple, green apple and caramel, lasting long into the finish.
Frenchman Jacques Lurton comes from a family that knows a thing or two about making wine, and this offering is a medium-bodied, creamy-textured testament to that. The nose starts off with spring flowers, pear and apricot notes, while the palate add hints of ginger before gliding to a long, pure finish. Drink now.
Owned by the Borie family, one of the grand families of Bordeaux, the vineyard forms part of Château Fourcas-Borie. The wine, with its dark tannins and dense texture, is powerful and concentrated. Layers of tannins show most strongly at this young stage, while the ripe juicy fruit will develop well. It is going to be a fine wine. Drink from 2021.
A hearty, bombastically high-in-alcohol wine, this offers a combination of grape, plum and leather flavors around a syrupy sweetness of chocolate.
This wine is soft and creamy, although it does seem to miss out on fruit and freshness. It is smooth and ripe, with an aftertaste that is lightly off dry.
Stalky compost and wilted floral aromas are as present as the underlying basic berry scents. This varietal Alicante Bouschet is tannic and slightly abrasive in feel, while warm, bitter, peppery plum and cherry flavors leave heat and burn on the finish.
From the Cognac region, this fresh and fruity wine is light and bright with herbal flavors, crisp citrus and intense acidity. It's ready to drink.
Fleshy, powdery aromas of melon and raspberry are not really crisp. This feels basic, with wiry acidity. Briny citrus flavors carry onto a finish that's highly regular but gets the job done.
This brand plays at the lower end of the Côtes du Rhône price spectrum, sometimes successfully. This wine has a subdued nose, then combines cherry, leather and earth notes on the palate. It's a bit astringent for the modest level of fruit, but still solid.
This is a diluted, straightforward wine dotted in pleasing layers of pear and papaya. It finishes clean and quick.
With a reduced quality wrapped in big tannin and oak, this wine has a touch of black cherry and cranberry, with crisp acidity. However, it's bogged down by stemmy funk.
This lean wine focuses more on its stalky texture rather than fruit. It has some attractive perfumes and hints of red fruits that are subdued by the austere structure. Drink from 2017.
With a dark oak profile, this wine blends Merlot with Malbec, the two combining to offer cinnamon, clove, cedar and herb. The fruit tends more red than black, and is friendly but a touch puckering and dry.
Aromatically, this varietal Prieto Picudo from Asturias shows graphite, wood resin, vanilla and spiced plum. In the mouth, however, it's devoid of structure and thus comes across jammy and flabby. Flavors of baked berry fruits are oaky and rooty, while this is massive on the finish but lacks foundation and framing.
While the wine is ripe, it does have a barnyard aroma that needs to blow away before it is ready to drink. The aroma comes with firm, dry tannins and a ripe berry fruits that are just beginning to develop. Drink from 2017.
There's a feral quality to the nose of this wine, with wet hay and grapeseed aromas alongside black-cherry fruit. A punchy plum flavor shows on the palate, as does dried oregano and more barnyard qualities.
Distinct aromas of Graham Cracker, coffee and stewed berries precede a tannic, rock-hard palate. Chunky, wayward flavors of blackberry and stalky black plum are earthy and finish with severe tannic grab.
Briary, herbal berry aromas precede a simple, inoffensive palate. Generic, slightly candied and herbal berry flavors end with notes of pepper and mild bitterness. This is 60% Bobal and 40% Cabernet Sauvignon.
This is a smooth, approachable and straightforward wine, unfussy in its offerings of buttery toast and oak, the fruitiness derived entirely from the tropics.
This smooth, soft wine is light and fruity. It has some tannins although fresh berry fruit and perfumed acidity are what characterize this wine. Immediately attractive, it's a light wine from a light year, and is ready to drink now.
Coarse raspberry and plum aromas are backed by a narrow palate with limited flavors of cherry chewing gum and cough drop. This stays consistent by finishing with a wiry, raw feel.
Nearing brown in color, this blend of 60% Viognier and 40% Chardonnay is reminiscent of a Old Fashioned cocktail, with orange rind and bourbon notes as well as walnut oil and quinine aromas. A strong hazelnut-oil character shows on the rougher palate, which is thick and oily with dried apricot and more orange peel.
This blend of 81% Cabernet Sauvignon is softened by 19% Merlot, providing a sanguine experience marred by ponderously huge tannins that make the fruit almost impenetrable. Once pierced, expect currant, cedar and leather.
This varietal Garnacha is chunky and heavily oaked on the nose, with woody aromas of vanilla and plastic. An overtly oaky, awkward feeling palate tastes of resin on top of plum and blackberry, while the finish shows more resin mixed with mint.
This Merlot-based rosé smells cheesy and not all that fruity. Chunky and obtuse on the palate, this tastes of generic citrus and berry fruits. An adequate finish is par for the course.
A sweet smell like raisins and very ripe, grapy flavors ride a soft, broad texture and medium body. It's not too dry and it's not at all tannic. It's easy and gentle to drink.
This is a soft, approachable juicy and unfussy wine, wrapped in sturdy stalks of oak and showy tannin. It offers a value-minded taste of blackberry jam and leather.
The Grenache and Cinsault in this rosé are from the Jura and other vineyards. The result is a soft, smooth and creamy wine. Fresh red-berry fruits give it a round, almost off-dry character. It's fresh at the end, and definitely in an apéritif style.
The aromas of herbs are surprisingly light. The stone fruit flavors are broad, with tart, lemony acids. The variety seems impossible for find.
Nearly 25% of Petit Verdot is in play in this wine, along with a handful of Malbec. Altogether, it's an herbal, cedar-driven and grippy wine, dry on the palate with a hazelnut finish.
Pinot Noir in this appellation produces light, gently fruity wines such as this. With bright cherry flavors and a modicum of tannins, it is fresh, soft and ready to drink.
Soft and creamy, this gentle sparkling wine has some ripe apple fruits and attractive acidity. A yeasty aftertaste is less attractive.
In the pale style made fashionable by Provence, this rosé is fruity, crisp and lightly textured. It's an attractive wine, fresh and ready to drink.
Odd aromas of clove are smoky but mostly come across as weird and forced. This has a lactic, creamy mouthfeel with soft edges. The flavor profile is all wood, and resiny, clove-driven wood at that. A severely sweet, cloying, resiny finish is a lot to deal with.
This has a deeper-than-usual yellow-gold color, and slight aromas and flavors that are more earthy and nutty than fruity. It is difficult to find the varietal character. It's a basic, rather full-bodied and drinkable white wine.
Rough, stalky, yeasty aromas are all over the map. Lemony acidity renders this tight as a drum, while bitter, stalky flavors finish wheaty and bitter. This Tempranillo Blanco is barely worth a go; the pleasure factor is at base level.
This smells and tastes quite buttery, which is unusual for the variety, and has a thick texture to go with it. Fruit aromas and flavors are pretty sparse, and the balance leans toward soft.
Salted apples and white rocks are marred by metallic aromas. Rounded flavors of ripe lemon curds are also hit with metallic flavors throughout.
Pickled, briny aromas lead to a palate defined only by pithy citrus fruit. This tastes mostly of bitter citrus, while the finish brings herbacious tones.
This is overtly rustic, roasted, leathery and strange on the nose. A wide but wayward palate seems sluggish, while rubbery black-fruit and burnt-wood flavors finish with murky berry tones.
Leesy vanilla aromas are bland and don't amount to much. The palate follows suit, with additional briny melon flavors.
Powdery bath-soap aromas are odd on the nose. The mealy palate boasts flavors of bitter melon and papaya.
Aromas of spiced tomato, clove and rubber gloves don't click or suggest much quality. A cloying, sugary palate with mucky berry flavors is less than stellar, as is a sticky finish that tastes like strawberry jam.